I come here for support....to vent....to encourage....to listen and speak truths.I will continue to come here for my first year, because whoever I made this pledge to originally kinda knows what he's talking about.....when people slip away from their supportive community, they often slip away from their commitment to NOPE. I read something the other day that made me ask myself....."Well Julie, why do you come here?"I see, and am experiencing something very similar to recovery from other addictions that I have and have sought treatment for.There is proven power in a community of positive support. I don't come here to 'save' people......not because I don't want to save people, but because I cant save people.As it is with any diagnoses, I can help you treat your cancer, but I cannot save you from your cancer.I can help you treat your addiction.....but I cannot save you from your addiction. But the strange thing is.....and if it weren't so amazing, it would be ridiculous,When I help you,I save myselffrom my own addiction. Im making the commitment.....Im committing to one year here. (I really feel as if Im just re-committing. Ive already made a pledge to stay with a supportive non-smoking community for one year. In 12 step circles, many of us have something called a 'home group': a place where we commit ourselves to showing up as much for ourselves as for others. Ive done nothing more than change my 'home group'. My committment stands. It just stands here)  :)
I agree with everything you said. I re-pledge my commitment for 1 year (I too already pledged somewhere else). Sorry people, you are stuck with me for a while :p
Likewise - I'm here to support and be supported. I'll stay a year or more...
I pledge to be here for the long haul.  :)
I have never since today pledged anywhere except on a daily but today I pledge to remain here for at least my one year Anniversary to be supported and to pay it forward This is my pledge
I'm not going anywhere just yet......
Same here. I am here for the time being, one day at a time.But Smokefree forever...
I pledge to stay here for at least my 2-year anniversary and have no plans of leaving. I have "quit" so many times in the past without a good support system and always relapsed. A support system is key for a successful quit. I couldn't have done it without you guys!
Okey Dokey Non-Smokey, I'm In.  :)
Yes i pledge for one year, but you could be sorry! 
Bumping this.....just until Cristobal gets here and begins one :)
be here as long as possible :D 
I pledged a while ago ..I pledged to pay it forward and that's what I am trying to do and I will continue to do so! The location changed...but not the meaning of my pledge! I am committed to "pay it forward for 1 year. I am committed to sign up for support as often as I can..I am committed to help other people who want to quit for 1 year. I will be around for a while :-) This has been the meaning of my pledge then...and now!
 But the strange thing is.....and if it weren't so amazing, it would be ridiculous,When I help you,I save myselffrom my own addiction. Soberjulie, exactly!  Most of the time, we don't even know we're helping ourselves when we're helping others... this was an awesome post!
I never pledged to stay a year before, but I am more than happy on this Quit Train to pledge however long it takes, even to just help one person reach their quit, so for the foreseeable future I am committed to being here (OMG what did I just agree to LOL) for a year and more xx
Im still here......I am absent a lot. But I am here :)  I havent totally flaked out on my commitment  :P
Definitely a nice one, thanks!
Julie: tthe ultimate weapon 
Oops i meant"The ultimate weapon for recovery is the recovering addict"
I'm so happy to see this still pinned 
Who are you?
I've missed you, you smart ass pork product 
Still here and how's my brother?
Hi Julie, I like how you made the home group connection. I would never miss my home group so I will not miss a day here. Thanks! Michelle
Bumping for our newer members.   Please do this.  I can vouch for its effectiveness. 
Good morning all you lovely smoke free, delicious smelling people! 
Yep. Good idea
I showed up for the comradrie.  I stayed for the crazy so...put another pot on. 
I'm still here, more than 2 years after my pledge.  I guess you are stuck with me guys, even if I'm not here as often as I used to be. I haven't thought about smoking a cigarette for bloody ages now; it's been so long that I can't even remember!
Pimp
Sometimes need to pass by and make sure the old-timers are getting too grouchy...  ;)
 The quit forum was the most powerful tool I used to stay quit, beyond all doubt. 
The quit forum was the most powerful tool I used to stay quit, beyond all doubt.Same here!! I often participate in other forums (alcoholism and drug addiction forums, classic car restoration forums, and current event/debate type forums) I'll sometimes come across someone who mentions they are struggling with trying to quit smoking. My reply is ALWAYS the same: I send them the link to here. 
Romance thoughts make little Stewie pledge one year to this community. NOPE!
Nothing to romance about stewi..poisons,cancer,c.o.p.D...heart desease and more..Keep reading and keep climbing..NOPE !!!
I pledge my one year commitment now (hopefully many many many more years after that) :)
Love this Jackie..those who have pledged have succeeded..
Ok; I've seen and heard enough here to make me want to commit to a one year pledge to keep coming back here and sharing what I can with you old timers as well as those newbies that have yet to join us. I never tried to do anything like quitting smoking before and didn't really know what it would be like or what I would need to do to be successful at it. Once I had stopped and was in the depths of hell week, I figured there must be others out here who are going through this and maybe they could help me keep at it. I never imagined I'd find the kind of support I have found here. It is truly that extra ingredient I needed to get me through the tough times. I'm feeling ever stronger about being able to beat this addiction into the history books of my consciousness but I also know I need to keep this goal top of mind to be sure I make this my permanent quit. Joining you all here and pledging NOPE as well as sharing stories about our common experiences on a regular basis will be just the thing I need in order to accomplish this. While I'm here, I can only hope that I have the same positive affect on someone else that you all have had on me :)
I love this post R...Everyone here has so much to offer in supporting each other..oldies,middleuns.. Newbies...This is why this fabulous place works..You my friend are a great asset here...posting your yearly pledge..is a great tool..Between you and us...you will reach that lido deck with pride...I believe those quitters who find themselves here..are the luckiest quitter ever...And now and again ..we have fun..
I just hope there's a buffet on that lido deck .................... I'm counting on it :P
I'm in, as of now, tonite, smoked my last cigarette! Im committed to being with you all for at least a yr. everyday I'm going to need you all for awhile. Been hedging & hawing about to use the patch or go cold turkey. But with my support team here I think I'll do cold turkey. You'll be seeing me everyday for awhile 
Not sure that I am supposed to commitment to one year before my actually quit date. But I am pleading to be a part of this community and forum for one year. 
Welcome (again) Stwine!You can commit any time you like. Your commitment is a good thing as it's really a promise to yourself that you will stay close to the community for the support you will no doubt need along the way. Actually, the people who do commit here and stay with the board along the way are much more successful than those that do not make the commitment so; welcome aboard!!
While stuffing my face with tangerine after tangerine, and cursing out my Hell Week, I lurked here. And read. Post after post. Topic after topic. And it kept me sane. And it kept me from putting things in my mouth and setting them on fire. And it showed me that quitting was possible. That life after smoking could be really, really good. And that gave me hope, motivated me and kept me going, hour after hour. And so, about two and a half weeks into my quit, I jumped aboard. And, aside from my initial decision to quit, joining this forum is the best decision I've made. No one can do this for you - you have to want it for yourself - but they can sure make that journey better and so much easier. Quitting doesn't seem so frightening to me anymore. I'm actually enjoying it.  Though I have people who support me offline, it's not quite the same. Here, you'll always be supported, and understood and welcomed by a great community of people who really know exactly what you're going through, or have been through or will go through. I haven't been here long, and yet, I feel I'm right where I should be. (And I really, really like you guys. :wub: ) So, you're now stuck with me! I pledge at least a year. I'm here to be supported, and to offer my support wherever it's needed. Let's do this thing!  :)
Great post pix...your goin to make it...and we will be here to cheer you on.x
A year? Wait a minute. Let me check my calendar.......... Yeah. I'm good. :D ​
A year? Wait a minute. Let me check my calendar.......... Yeah. I'm good. :D ​High five !!!!                    
I've already committed to a year at another board and I will do the same here. I've had many months long quits in the past so I am not taking anythig for granted. I will not get complacent. I will NOPE every day. Thank you. 
I'm nearly at a year smoke free in July. But as a late comer i commit a year and over to Quit Train forum  :yahoo:  :yahoo:  :yahoo:
So happy you 2 will stick around even after your other board gets back up and running. We're a little weird here sometimes but we may just grow on you over time  :D
Good move you two, quitting smoking is a marathon not something you do in a couple of months; being here strengthening your resolve is smart. I wish you success.
There is no such thing ..as having enough support..putting them killer cigs down for ever ..is the main thing..Do what you have to do ..to achieve that...good work ...
I committ to a year. My last quit failed at 7 months because of what GeaceLove mentioned. Complacency. Got too comfortable last quit, like, "I got this!"  One puff later and I was DONE!  WELL NOT THIS TIME NICOTINE!!!  I got smarter and stronger from that last quit. This one sticks. I want to be here to support and be supported. NOPE!!!
Glad to have ya Rob :) Great attitude too. You know the drill and now you have that previous quit and relapse experience to draw from so I think you will be just fine. Look forward to following your journey with us!
Let's make this your sticky quit rob...buckle up...there will be a few curves ahead..But that's OK..just hold on..this train goes all the way to freedom ..
365 Days not so long time flys when you are hanging with good people.
Hiya all you sweet smelling non-smokers! Checking in!
Well !!!..Hello there jules ...hope all is well in your smoke free corner ...Hugs to the little man...xx
Doreen, would you believe it? I have TWO little men now. Mav was three in Jan (just ahead of my quit date) and Daxton will be one next month 
Good to see some "seasoned veterans" dropping by once and a while :)
Doreen, would you believe it? I have TWO little men now. Mav was three in Jan (just ahead of my quit date) and Daxton will be one next month So grateful to not be 'stinky grandma'Oh wow !!!Congratulations to all...how lovely ..xxxx
I'd love to commit to 1 year/12 months of NOT Smoking & being a member this fantastic forum! Please!Edited August 13, 2017 by Jewel
I'd love to commit to 1 year/12 months of NOT Smoking & being a member this fantastic forum! Please!Great news Jewel..I will be waiting with the champers on the lido deck ..x
I'd love to commit to 1 year/12 months of NOT Smoking & being a member this fantastic forum! Please! Smart move lad. If you stick with people that have been through this struggle ready to support you, plus all the information, youll be increading your chances of success. And im sure you will suceed :)
I hereby commit to one year on this board, staying quit right through. And beyond. I appreciate the direct support from all of you and the implicit support gained from helping others. 
Brilliant PT...let's get you on the Lido Deck..and commitment.. Will get you there..Plus we love a good party !!!...
On my up to visit w/you! Thank again for this great forum & having support is very important to our recovery! I'm looking forward to many days, months & years of being a non smoker & can't think of better place to be! I'm buckled up & ready for a fantastic voyage! 
Proud of you Jewel...look at that ticker..it's heading towards 2 months...Keep marchin...x
I will commit to one year on this forum with all you fabulously crazy people!! <3
Good to see you...welcome home !!!!whahaha...
I will commit to one year on this forum with all you fabulously crazy people!! <3 Alright lad! This is useful ammo against the smokes. Stick around and you will suceed no doubt.
Good decision! Having a support network as you go through triggers that may come along through all the seasonal changes is a good idea :)
I had the wrong idea.   I thought this forum was to tease the one they call "Bakon". But then someone mentioned trying to quit smoking. I thought, "Well, that is a tangent from the main point of this place, yes?" Then it got mentioned a few times. I thought, "well I just gave it up myself early October. Maybe I can join the chat."    The reason I am here - I followed a friend here (though she is presently MIA) but stayed for the mostly light-hearted chat. I am still not sure if this is mainly a "quit smoking board" or a "poke good fun at each other board" but either way who wouldn't enjoy it? But anyways - I am not planning on taking up smoking again as there is NO reason to. I gave away my cigarette rolling machine and I am not about to go pay $5 a pack for some stupid nasty cancer sticks. So yeah, being on board for a year is but the beginning. Coming up on two months quit, the desire to smoke has faded to a faint background noise a couple times a day and lasts maybe two seconds.    I shall be here.
So glad to see your commitment to stay smoke free for 1 year...folks who commit to this..usually go off and have a great smoke free life... We tease Bakon..O.M.G....I nearly choked on my breakfast... It's clear you have not read past posts..   You have alot to learn ...  I am still here because for me...this place worked... We do have a fun side...and a serious side...I feel the balance is just right...  There is a saying...Take what you want...and leave the rest.... We love our Bakon..warts and all...x
    All clear. Carry on.
I was committed....   got the 'stificate to prove it too....     More importantly, I commit to sticking with this CRAZY lot in here......    I forgot myself once...   not going to forget myself a second time... that would be absoflaminglutely ludicrous!!   
Newbies,    Make the commitment. One year on the train, keep yourself accountable. When you come and pledge not to take a puff just for that day 365 times, you win.
I am committing to one year. Only 364 more nopes to go!
Just now, LizQuit said:             I am committing to one year. Only 364 more nopes to go!             Smart move lad. Come nope daily, dont fail you. Its a matter of noping.
Just now, LizQuit said:             I am committing to one year. Only 364 more nopes to go!         Good Stuff - a year seems a long way off but .... it isn't. You'll see.     Oh and, Stewie calls everyone "lad" so, not to worry - lol.
    Good job Liz. I firmly believe that being a part of a "quitting community" like Quit Train, and committing to being active and contributing for a full year, is decisive in being successful in quitting.
    ditto wot Lin said^^^^^^^^^ oooh whats happened I got an extra dot and promotion to advanced member ??????
OK signen on the dotted line an committen  to one year of bein a NOPE head. At least I'm smart enough to know I need the nope.      EDIT: Why has noone mentioned if this is legalised NOPE??? Do I need to be watching for the cops with I have me daily NOPE??????????????????????????????????Edited March 2, 2018 by notsmokinjocoffee overload induced random thought
    Pst pst yearly nope over here 
    I committed to one year at qsmb.....and I did it! Noped every single day! Now that I am over here....I commit to another year (at least) of doing the daily nope and offering support to others who may need it!             
For the most part, my quit has consumed my thoughts and attention the past several weeks. But each time I thought of the quit lasting more than the next moment or a day, I began to get overwhelmed.       I was at lunch, in my deep thought and meditation state, asking myself...What do I want from this?  A moment, a day, a week, a month? And I came to a calm place with the answer...I want to never smoke a cigarette again ... ever! And rather than get overwhelmed, I was at peace with myself. I understand there will be battles with my thoughts, but as someone wise  and experienced said...the war is won. I ALREADY QUIT. I don't need to continue fighting that war; but I must be diligent and strong in fighting the  isolated battles/attacks to keep my freedom.      I commit to 1 year here.  But don't be suprised if you have to put with me for a lot longer.
    the﻿ ﻿war is won. I﻿ ALREADY Q﻿UIT. I don't need to continue fighting that war; but I must be diligent and strong in fighting the  isolated battles/attacks to keep my freedom.         Love this !!!.....you are indeed already a fabulous non smoker....all you have to do..is stay a non smoker....well done !!!
    I'm in! 
    I'm in, hope to post here again a year from now.
        Just now, blur said:                I'm in, i will post here again a year from now.             Well done Blur...   I've changed your post to I WILL...!!!!!.....stay positive !!!
    I commit to a year on here aswell hopefully longer  what a great place and helpful people!!
1 minute ago, MwBenson said:                I commit to a year on here aswell hopefully longer  what a great place and helpful people!!             Love your positive attitude...you can do it ...!!!
I commit to a year because that’s when I get myself a new 4K big screen LCD television. I want at least a 55  Incher. Maybe even some new audio equipment too.  I’ve had the same 36 inch plasma for more than 10 years. It’s time… and I deserve it!
I started off noping accidentely. Then the intended but cautious nope once in a while, afterwards waiting for some miracle fairy to land on my shoulder telling me everythings gonna be alright now and that I am safe in the garden of nopers.         Last week it clicked. Daily noping won't save me from lighting up, daily noping will strengthen my resolve. Only me, myself and I have the responsability for lighting/not lighting up.         Humble because I'm only 7 weeks in ... but uhm, I think I'm finally on to something the old sages keep repeating .      So, I am committing to one year (and the inner voice saying ... 'You? You don't like being part of groups, you don't make commitments! What about that commitment you made as a child after that one horrible thing happened, the commitment you made to do it all by yourself?' Well. Maybe it's time to ditch that one and replace it for something new.       Edited October 9, 2018 by MLMR
    I will remain here for one year. 
1 year committed! Looking forward to learning my true self over the course of this year.
I pledge to be here for the long haul.
Lifetime commitment, 1 day at a time
    Thought about it, and I am willing to stay on this forum at least one year. Helping myself, keeping the quit solid and by doing that being there for other quitters.    (So there ppl... you are gonna have to put up with me now )
1 hour ago, Vivianne said:              Thought about it, and I am willing to stay on this forum at least one year. Helping myself, keeping the quit solid and by doing that being there for other quitters.            And you will end up here longer than a year.  You will come to love us all and not be able to live without us.
43 minutes ago, Linda Thomas said:              And you will end up here longer than a year.  You will come to love us all and not be able to live without us.      This is quite possible ...x
    LOL that would be okay .. I like it here 
3 minutes ago, Vivianne said:               LOL that would be okay .. I like it here    We're happy to have you here ...    What a great fun way to kick that nicotine's butt...out of your life for good ...
    Cigarettes do nothing for us.   They take away our time, our money and our health.
1 minute ago, Octain said:              Cigarettes do nothing for us.                   They take away our time, our money and our health.          That is so true!!
17 hours ago, Vivianne said:                Thought about it, and I am willing to stay on this forum at least one year. Helping myself, keeping the quit solid and by doing that being there for other quitters.            (So there ppl... you are gonna have to put up with me now )     You are building a sturdy quit Ms V.  It takes a year to conquer craves and seasonal triggers, might as well be with your troops here.  I am so happy you are on QTrain, your experience is sure to resonate with everyone dealing with Nicotine Addiction.     AND This may mean a year of Triumphant Chicks, always a bonus !
On 10/12/2019 at 10:58 AM, Octain said:             Cigarettes do nothing for us.                   They take away our time, our money and our health.              I think that sums them up nicely.
Subtitle: The Romance Is Dead!  This is the time of year when many people quit smoking. Most especially, people who quit before but relapsed are trying again. I think that is wonderful (that they're coming back, not that they relapsed). Reading their posts has made me realize that in very many cases, people relapse because they are still romancing the cigarette. That means that they still WANT to smoke even though they know that smoking does nothing good for them. They still remember those quietly satisfying evenings on the deck smoking. They remember that a-a-a-h-h-h! of satisfaction with the first long draw on a cigarette. And they want that again. And so even if they are weeks or months into a quit-- even though the PHYSICAL addiction is long gone-- they essentially choose to go back to smoking because of the pull of these romantic fantasies about how good smoking was. Well, I was the poster child for romancing the cigarette. Throughout this quit and all my previous quits (of which there were several) I always wanted to smoke. I didn't smoke-- I controlled myself-- but I wanted to smoke. All the time. Almost every day. It seemed to me that after 4 or 5 months quit, almost everybody on the board was way done with smoking and happy about it. I still missed it. And that was frustrating because my rational brain KNEW that the "pleasure" of smoking was vastly over rated and mostly imaginary. I KNEW that I was romancing the cigarette and I really did not want to go back to smoking. But the seductive thoughts were there. Maybe not every day, but often enough to be very annoying. I'm here to tell you that today, more than 9 months after my quit, I realize that I am not desiring a cigarette hardly ever! This is a first for me. And this death of the romance is not just a matter of time-- I quit smoking before for periods of up to a year and still suffered from romancing. I think that the difference this time is that I educated myself about Nicodemon's lies. It's as though my rational brain has told my junkie brain over and over and over again "No, smoking is NOT pleasurable! And such small, brief pleasure as you feel when you smoke comes at way too great a cost! Forget it!" and finally, FINALLY junkie brain is quieting down. What a relief! Now I do admit that during these "romancing episodes" that I'm talking about-- those days when I really, really wanted a cigarette-- I had to remind myself over and over again about why I quit smoking in the first place and remind myself over and over again that I wanted to quit more than I wanted to smoke. I had to FIGHT to keep my quit many, many times over the months. The urge to smoke wasn't constant, but it was frequent. Sometimes it was quite miserable. I'm still jealous of people who seemed to have it easier than I did. I often thought that I was a "special snowflake" and I had it harder than other quitters-- few people admitted that they still wanted to smoke many months after a quit. But whether I had it worse than anyone else or not, I hung in there, reminded myself about why I quit, and that I was DETERMINED not to smoke.Now, at last, I can look back over the last few weeks and realize that the romance is dead. I finally, finally am at the point where I do think about smoking once in a while but it's like a vague thought that is easily dismissed, not a serious desire. I have heard others describe this "vague thought" phenomenon many months after a quit and I finally understand what they are talking about. So I guess I am writing this to say that if you are many weeks or months into a quit and you still want a cigarette, you are not alone. What you are experiencing is real. It does happen to some people (like me, for example). You are romancing the cigarette and you have to use your rational brain, your smoking education, and your strong desire to quit to fight the urge. And eventually, sooner or later, you will turn around one day and realize that the romance is dead. You really don't have to fight to keep your quit anymore-- you just have to remain vigilant and committed. Hang in there, folks!  You can DO this!
This makes me so happy - I am so happy for you Chrys :)
Oh Chrys,You have described my struggle exactly. The promise of light at the end of the tunnel is all that keeps me going some days.Thanks for the light!Karen
I really needed to hear this right now. I'm constantly romancing the cigarette and it's what made me relapse a week and a half ago.  Everybody said that the cravings will pass but I felt like they just wouldn't! I felt, and sometimes still feel, like I'm fighting every moment of the day to stay quit. The rational mind just goes out the window.  I have a huge hurdle this weekend...I'll be alone which is a trigger for me...and your post will hopefully help me through it.  It's good to dear that the cravings, or romancing the cigarette, takes a long time to subside for some people but even for those of us who take a while, they WILL go away.  Thank you, thank you. 
Thanks for this post Chrys!  
Wonderful post Chrys. Addiction to smoking is like any relationship - you need to work at it. The more that we addicts romance the notion of smoking, the more we bestow power on the cigarette by imbuing it with relaxing powers that it never had, then the more we feed and nurture the relationship. Sitting on the dock, kicking back, looking wistfully into the middle distance and taking a sip of cool clear water is just as relaxing as smoking the cigarette was...it is the moment of relaxation, of peace that we romance (quite rightly). Where we get it wrong is by believing that it was the sucking in of 10,000 noxious chemicals that 'made' the moment. For me, the key was to see how abusive the relationship was and to actively stop working at it. Smoking is not fun. It never was. The Great Pretender
Perfect this describes me totally, problem is I thought I was alone now I know I'm not this will work. Thank you 
... Sitting on the dock, kicking back, looking wistfully into the middle distance and taking a sip of cool clear water is just as relaxing as smoking the cigarette was...it is the moment of relaxation, of peace that we romance (quite rightly). Where we get it wrong is by believing that it was the sucking in of 10,000 noxious chemicals that 'made' the moment... You are oh so right, EB! For the longest time I thought that I could no longer enjoy any "quiet moments" because I no longer could sit and smoke. It took me forever to realize that I could still enjoy my quiet moments-- I could still savor a victory or celebrate a job well done or get away from screaming kids for a few minutes-- WITHOUT A CIGARETTE!! It seems silly to say this, but I was so used to resting and smoking that I really thought that if I couldn't smoke, I couldn't rest. Period. My life had to be go...go...go! I know, I know, that sounds crazy to you successful quitters, but when I was new to my quit, I really believed that.  Now, as you say, I understand that the cigarettes did not allow me to rest and/or reflect. I allowed myself to rest and/or reflect and Nicodemon was just co-opting that time to inject more poison into my body. Jeeze, isn't it amazing how nicotine scrambled our brains for so many years??!!
This is a wonderful post Chrysalis. I struggled like you did at certain times of my quit but when you hit that point where it becomes a vague, fleeting and easily dismissed thought THAT is a true "a-h-h-h-h-h-h" moment of satisfaction.
What I like, very much, about this post is that if someone (like me) had read Allen Carr numerous times but still felt the urge it shows you that you're ok and it can be perfectly normal. I wish I'd have had this post to read many years ago as I would have cracked on, head down, instead of thinking well I must be a special snowflake who can't quit because I still don't feel that peace and excitement that I thought was a given. This deserves to be pinned if you ask me.
Can this be pinned?
Perfect post.  Perfect timing.  :)
Up until recently I thought that I would be quit but wistful about smoking.  For example, the type of quitter who 20 years later mentions that she would smoke again if they came out with a harmless cig. I did  not find myself disgusted by smoke or wanting to tell people on the street not to smoke.  I was sad that I wasn't free like Allen Carr mentioned and wondered why.  However, over the last few months, gradually, any romancing went away. Previously, if I craved a smoke, I would picture myself smoking it, coughing, reversing any good health benefits I have now.  I would tell myself that I would not want to hurt my family or friends who were proud of me, or I would think about how this quit, my first quit, is my golden ticket, and to relapse would probably lead to me smoking and quitting over and over.  The other day I thought , because of an executive assistant moment , about smoking and my immediate response was, why would you want to do that? My self inventory found no emotion, no struggle, no disgust, just a simple, straight forward thought that I do not smoke. I am writing this just to show that quitting is a gradual process for many, I think, and one may need to take time to be neutral, free , according to his or her own path.
Awesome piece of writing, I have sometimes those voices that romantise cigarettes and I always use common sense to explain no I can't smoke one, it's junkie thinking and I'm not going to reply wit lighting up one. Even when I read the article I felt romance coming up. I just say NOPE I don't NEED a cig, I don't like a cig and it's awful. NOPE.
great post!!
This seems a very good place to post this video 
The written version of the above video is here http://www.addictionsandrecovery.org/relapse-prevention.htm
Excellent video, Sharon, thank you!  You know, I never believed that relapse happens suddenly. When people say, "I don't know what happened. I was doing fine and then I was at a party and someone offered me a cigarette and BAM! I was back to smoking before I even realized what happened!" Really, the seeds of relapse are planted days or weeks before the event; we just don't realize it. One of the things I like about this video is that it recognizes that these seeds are planted early and tells you how to recognize it and how to deal with it.  One thing I noticed about smoking (and that the video addresses early on) is that when we quit, if we don't do "self care" we are setting ourselves up for relapse. I mean, look at why we smoke. We smoke because we're bored or anxious or lonely. We smoke because we want to celebrate a small victory or because we're up to "here" with screaming kids and just need a 5 minute break. So we step outside or kick back in our chair and smoke for a few minutes. Then we feel calmer and ready to get back to our day. When we quit smoking, what do we do to fill those needs instead of smoking? How you do bleed off stress or anxiety? What do you do when you're up to "here" with the kids? When can you even get a break if you're not smoking? I used to use smoking as a way to sit down and rest and relax for 7 minutes several times a day. When I stopped smoking, I no longer had an excuse to sit and do nothing-- I expected myself to go, go, go all day long without stopping. After all, if I don't need to smoke, why should I stop working?  So with no way to bleed off stress, no excuse to step outside or have a seat and clear your mind for a few minutes, of course the desire to smoke is going to build. You don't really miss the nicotine per se, you miss having a ritual or a strategy to care for yourself and give yourself periodic relaxation breaks throughout the day. So the emotional pressure and frustration build up. Remembering the good things you associated with smoking build up. And the next thing you know, you accept an offered cigarette and BAM! you relapse. From "out of the blue" right? Wrong. The relapse had been building for weeks because you weren't paying attention to your inner needs or providing yourself any alternatives to cigarettes.
I couldn't agree with you more Chrys! I have mentioned before that I still have some sectioning of the day breaks, and at times have a long deep breathing session or two. I consider that my self care, as with it I just feel. So much happier in myself. I'm glad you like this video and thought it would perfectly tie in with your thread, and seemed to match your observations perfectly. Self care people... Self care!
This is also taken from his page. It informs us that most nicotine withdrawal is done by about 3 months, so hopefully that might help readers see that thoughts are coming from an emotional place, so you can take action on your self care. Withdrawal Symptoms Last? Nicotine is out of your body 72 hours after you quit smoking. Nicotine withdrawal symptoms usually reach their peak 2 to 3 days after you quit, and are gone within 1 to 3 months.1 It takes at least 3 months for your brain chemistry to return to normal after you quit smoking.2 The last two symptoms to go usually are irritability and low energy.   In summary, most people start to feel better after 1 week, and the symptoms are usually gone within 3 months.
This seems a very good place to post this videoI will keep watching  this. Thank you.                   
Just exactly what I need to read, the constant craves for the nicotine no matter where you are in your quit are the ones I need to overcome, my biggest problem is if they go on for days I get so frustrated, thinking OMG surely I should not be having these types of craves, surely it should be easier by now, but that is the problem, I allow that frustration to creep in and allow my thoughts to grow bigger and bigger until its all that fills my head, it drives me crazy, I really think I am going to go mad, so I give in, its so much easier to give in I think, ummm no because I really know that I do not want to smoke, its disgusting and it will kill me, but I do not summon the strength to overcome it.  I am going to dig just a little bit deeper and get the strength to overcome those annoying thoughts, the thoughts wont kill me in the long run, they may annoy me, but they will not kill me, the smoking will.  Thanks Crys, I needed to read this xxx
"In summary, most people start to feel better after 1 week, and the symptoms are usually gone within 3 months." Quote I look forward to 3 months!
Be careful, Tyme2B. The video/web site that Sharon linked to is about addictions in general, not about nicotine specifically. I can't speak for other drugs (thank heavens!) but you are not free of nicotine addiction within 3 months. At 3 months the symptoms are much, much better than they were after the first 3 weeks. The cravings, such as they are, are very infrequent and much weaker than they were. They are usually triggered by some event (i.e. holiday season or a new job) or a particular emotion (i.e., boredom, loneliness, stress, etc).  I'm not telling you this to discourage you. I believe that if you know what to expect you can be prepared for it and weather it more easily. You're doing great. You have already kept your quit through the worst days and things will gradually get easier and easier for you every day. But don't be surprised if every once in awhile you get hit with a strong desire for a cigarette many months after you quit. It happens to all of us. Don't freak out; it's not permanent.
I had strong craves today but just used the nicotine gum. It beats smoking! I want to get off the gum but I need a little more time. Without it I think I could have fallen off the train today. I have a stressful job....not to say most others do not...and I'm tired from sleep deprivation. It will pass. I just do one day at a time but look forward to no cravings :(
You're doing great, Thyme2B! You are really rocking this quit!  I think that it's perfectly OK to chew nicotine gum when you need to. It's much, MUCH preferable to smoking. Sipping on ice water and/or sucking on hard candy helps a lot to reduce cravings. However, in the long run you're going to want to develop strategies to reduce stress without resorting to the gum.  So before you reach for the gum try some other relaxation exercise first. Try 4-4-4 breathing (breathe in to the count of 4, hold for the count of 4, breathe out to the count of 4, repeat as necessary). Or go for a brisk walk for a few minutes. Listen to you favorite music or practice chair yoga at your desk for a few minutes (here's one https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=barPap-8vnw&index=4&list=TLh0QnMG18cRn8iDlQfaS8V-6o89eCnLxv ). There are LOTS of ways to step back from the tensions of the day and calm yourself down. Try a couple of different ones and see which ones work best for you.
Thanks for that. Really enjoyed it.
I had strong craves today but just used the nicotine gum. It beats smoking! I want to get off the gum but I need a little more time. Without it I think I could have fallen off the train today. I have a stressful job....not to say most others do not...and I'm tired from sleep deprivation. It will pass. I just do one day at a time but look forward to no cravings :( I'm glad that you're still on the train.  :) If you want to get rid of the cravings, you'll need to get rid of the nicotine gum because it's keeping you addicted and craving it.  You used it to stop puffing on cigarettes but being nicotine free is the only way to stop the cravings.  Nicotine is nicotine is nicotine.  We're all drug addicts and our drug of choice is nicotine.  Only one way to get over it and that is to break the cycle of constant withdrawal and supplying your body with the same drug that you're trying to free yourself from. Here's a couple of videos that are very relevant to what you're going through. 30 Years Of Nicotine GumNicotine gum has now been available for over 30 years. Video discusses the dismal success rate of this product as well as introducing materials explaining why all of the aids out there have done little in helping people to successfully stop smoking. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cUtsVIdvaJo Nicotine Is Nicotine Is NicotineVideo discusses how nicotine delivered by any source via any route of administration has the full potential of causing relapse to any former smoker or user of any nicotine product. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KViTfIfHUv0 Keeping NRT In Case Of EmergencyVideo addresses the consequences of keeping a supply of any nicotine replacement product in the event of facing major or minor stress. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GMRj1BlDTRw&app=desktop The Law Of Addiction"Administration of a drug to an addict will cause re-establishment of chemical dependence upon the addictive substance." https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L2I0NQVAg4I
Thanks Maryland...I hear you & I am trying to use regular gum now instead of the nicotine gum. Same flavour. And it usually works.  I guess I have been quitting smoking the same way I get into cold water....bit by bit instead of just jumping in with both feet all at once....and no question it is sure not as fast to adjust. It has kept me on the train but I know it has to stop & stop soon. You always have great advice 
I used to work at a bakery and this guy would come in lamenting how he could NOT get off the gum.  No matter what he tried he could not stop chewing (and he'd been chewing it for like 5 years or something).  He was literally always chewing it.  Crazy.
My husband has been chewing nicotine gum since he quit smoking 20 years ago. He's just absolutely miserable without some source of nicotine. At least nicotine has never been shown to cause cancer-- lots of other chemicals in cigarettes cause cancer but not the nicotine itself.
I was like that too that I thought I had to go go go because I no longer smoked.  Now I have to remind myself to take a break...funny how that works. 
This is exactly what I needed to read, exactly when I needed to read it. Romancing...thats exactly what I have been doing. Its exactly why I go back to smoking, time after time. Thank you Chrys. U may have just saved my quit!
.
Subtitle: The Romance Is Dead!  This is the time of year when many people quit smoking. Most especially, people who quit before but relapsed are trying again. I think that is wonderful (that they're coming back, not that they relapsed). Reading their posts has made me realize that in very many cases, people relapse because they are still romancing the cigarette. That means that they still WANT to smoke even though they know that smoking does nothing good for them. They still remember those quietly satisfying evenings on the deck smoking. They remember that a-a-a-h-h-h! of satisfaction with the first long draw on a cigarette. And they want that again. And so even if they are weeks or months into a quit-- even though the PHYSICAL addiction is long gone-- they essentially choose to go back to smoking because of the pull of these romantic fantasies about how good smoking was. Well, I was the poster child for romancing the cigarette. Throughout this quit and all my previous quits (of which there were several) I always wanted to smoke. I didn't smoke-- I controlled myself-- but I wanted to smoke. All the time. Almost every day. It seemed to me that after 4 or 5 months quit, almost everybody on the board was way done with smoking and happy about it. I still missed it. And that was frustrating because my rational brain KNEW that the "pleasure" of smoking was vastly over rated and mostly imaginary. I KNEW that I was romancing the cigarette and I really did not want to go back to smoking. But the seductive thoughts were there. Maybe not every day, but often enough to be very annoying. I'm here to tell you that today, more than 9 months after my quit, I realize that I am not desiring a cigarette hardly ever! This is a first for me. And this death of the romance is not just a matter of time-- I quit smoking before for periods of up to a year and still suffered from romancing. I think that the difference this time is that I educated myself about Nicodemon's lies. It's as though my rational brain has told my junkie brain over and over and over again "No, smoking is NOT pleasurable! And such small, brief pleasure as you feel when you smoke comes at way too great a cost! Forget it!" and finally, FINALLY junkie brain is quieting down. What a relief! Now I do admit that during these "romancing episodes" that I'm talking about-- those days when I really, really wanted a cigarette-- I had to remind myself over and over again about why I quit smoking in the first place and remind myself over and over again that I wanted to quit more than I wanted to smoke. I had to FIGHT to keep my quit many, many times over the months. The urge to smoke wasn't constant, but it was frequent. Sometimes it was quite miserable. I'm still jealous of people who seemed to have it easier than I did. I often thought that I was a "special snowflake" and I had it harder than other quitters-- few people admitted that they still wanted to smoke many months after a quit. But whether I had it worse than anyone else or not, I hung in there, reminded myself about why I quit, and that I was DETERMINED not to smoke.Now, at last, I can look back over the last few weeks and realize that the romance is dead. I finally, finally am at the point where I do think about smoking once in a while but it's like a vague thought that is easily dismissed, not a serious desire. I have heard others describe this "vague thought" phenomenon many months after a quit and I finally understand what they are talking about. So I guess I am writing this to say that if you are many weeks or months into a quit and you still want a cigarette, you are not alone. What you are experiencing is real. It does happen to some people (like me, for example). You are romancing the cigarette and you have to use your rational brain, your smoking education, and your strong desire to quit to fight the urge. And eventually, sooner or later, you will turn around one day and realize that the romance is dead. You really don't have to fight to keep your quit anymore-- you just have to remain vigilant and committed. Hang in there, folks!  You can DO this!  What an amazing 'writer' you are, Chrys!!! and if I could have "liked" this a 100 times, I would! lol! Strangely, prior to seeing this thread, I read MQ's blog? about being "in love" with a narcissist... so VERY pertinent!!!
Be careful, Tyme2B. The video/web site that Sharon linked to is about addictions in general, not about nicotine specifically. I can't speak for other drugs (thank heavens!) but you are not free of nicotine addiction within 3 months. At 3 months the symptoms are much, much better than they were after the first 3 weeks. The cravings, such as they are, are very infrequent and much weaker than they were. They are usually triggered by some event (i.e. holiday season or a new job) or a particular emotion (i.e., boredom, loneliness, stress, etc).  I'm not telling you this to discourage you. I believe that if you know what to expect you can be prepared for it and weather it more easily. You're doing great. You have already kept your quit through the worst days and things will gradually get easier and easier for you every day. But don't be surprised if every once in awhile you get hit with a strong desire for a cigarette many months after you quit. It happens to all of us. Don't freak out; it's not permanent.   OH SO TRUE!!!!  NONE of us, should misunderstand the "false sense of security" we get!!!! Once an addict, ALWAYS an addict!!!! and that's it!!! I STILL kick myself for the 1st 'relapse' after being "clean" for a year and half! (or more.. don't remember exactly!)There were no 'cravings' that I recall... plus, in those days, I smoked EVERYWHERE!!! (except bed!) Thank God, I'd moved during that glorious time, so at least when I did "start" (mental note to hit myself!!!) it was only on the balcony... but still!!! and for MONTHS I "had it under control"... (reminds me of my little brother GRHS, and his heroine addiction) anyway, it got worse and worse, till I practically LIVED on the balcony at times! Have quit, like you Chrys, MANY times between then and now, but this has lasted the longest (since my 1st, I mean!!!)but I'm NOT being lulled into that FALSE sense of security!!! oh no!!!  My point being, smoking, heroine, crack, booze, whatever the addiction, it's STILL AN ADDICTION!!!! "My name's Ria and I'm an addict" Love and peace to you ALL!!! xox xox xox
I have been smoke free for a long time now. I stopped counting after half a year. I have to say that I still get lets call them "memories of smoking". I started when I was a teenager so i smoked through the interesting period of my life. Now that I do something, like travel, l do get a feeling that "yeah, i used to go outside for an arrival cigarette". Nicotine withdrawal is long gone but even in the long run you still will get flash backs from time to time. That's why motivation is so important. I quit many times, before I realized that i need some foundation. Now I always say, that relapse is not a big problem but before resuming smoke free life you have to think hard on why you relapsed. I used to relapse because "i had a stressful day", I thought that smoking calms me. Only by truly understanding that smoking does not calm me that I was able to stop smoking - once realization came I didn't need to quit, I just stopped.  I am repeating myself because that "It calms me" was what I believed and a lot of smokers do believe. The moment you stop smoking withdrawal begins and by smoking again you are just temporarily eliminating withdrawal symptoms thus perpetuating this circle of misery. By the way, for me last symptom was high energy. Weather permitting I was on a bicycle every day burning that extra energy and aggressiveness :D _______________________________
The contents of my last ashtray went into a jar that I half-filled with water.  I keep it screwed tightly shut for obvious reasons. A couple of times when I have had "cravings" for a smoke that tested my resolution, I unscrewed the lid and took a good long sniff of what I've been missing. That subtle and complex bouquet of fragrance that I might otherwise refer to as Satan's kimchi.     This is the "ROMANCE" of smoking.
Yes, nicotine is out of system very quickly and withdrawal symptoms are actually are a great and wonderful things.  That is your body adjusting itself to run on higher grade fuel in front of your eyes. You can feel yourself improving and if you understand what it is it stops being negative and becomes a very positive thing.  Staying the course is a question of did you "quit" or did you "stop smoking". If you feel that not smoking is a struggle - you have to look at the reason why you feel this way.  I am guessing you are quitting for a reason so now look at why you feel that being smoke free is something you have to work on. What is it that you think smoking was giving you positive. Smoking is a self sustaining purely negative habit. All other habits have at least one "positive"feature. Smoking has none.  So to stay the course you need to explore what you think you would gain from smoking and clearly understanding that you will NOT get this from a cigarette.Edited January 30, 2016 by MarylandQuitterAdvertising
I found this post from RobF about relapse,"Don't Be Silly, Stay Quit"
The romance also died for me. For the past month or so tobacco means nothing to me and i can see people smoking without the ohhh feeling. Finally! Im free. Now, dear Stewie, do not screw it up. Thanks Stewie.
The romance also died for me. For the past month or so tobacco means nothing to me and i can see people smoking without the ohhh feeling. Finally! Im free. Now, dear Stewie, do not screw it up. Thanks Stewie.Faaabuuuluuuusssss.... High five !!!
Faaabuuuluuuusssss.... High five !!! Indead. When i joined the forum 3 months ago the smokes where a crucial part of my fantasies. Now, i barely care. Im winning! High five mommy!
Someone mentioned three months can be tricky and unfortunately I must agree..... figured hey instead of cigarette I will smoke a cigar ok well that was still stupid. I need to remind myself NO I WILL NOT SMOKE A CIGAR that is no better.... I don't want throat cancer. 
Don't over think..3 months...it's no different to the months passed..if you want to it to be bad..it will be..Think nice positive thoughts ..eg..three months fabulous...Smoke a cigar???..oh wow..what a stink that would be..read more here..Smoking will kill you...
I re-read Allan Carr's Easyway this past week, as I've been struggling with smoking/not smoking and just want to be free. I still felt like I needed that cigarette to fulfill something. I also find it difficult to stick to my word of "nope" when I still fantasize about wanting a cigarette. So this post is the beginning of my journey (again)! I can say all I want that I am going to happily be a non-smoker for the rest of my life - but I actually have to believe it. I do believe it this time. However, I am still a little skeptical that the easyway can work for me... I have bookmarked several pages of the book to help me stay committed this time. I have so much to look forward to as a non-smoker. 
hford - good for you to search deep inside yourself and ask the tough question; "how badly do I want this?". Once you answer that and you decide you want a smoke free life badly enough, all you need then is personal commitment. You know the drill by now. You know what you're facing. It's the same thing all of us face when we quit. Educating yourself about the addiction, keeping a positive mindset throughout your quit and sheer determination through the initial days will get you there. It may not be pleasant but it will work and it will be worth it. You, like us, will see that those difficult days won't last that long. Take it in small bits at first. Hours turn into days, days to weeks etc. YOU can do it :)
What are thoughts on herbal tobacco??Logic tells me its not a good idea...the action of smoking, inhaling smoke and possibly nicotine in herbal tobacco as well?? 
Herbal cigarettes...It's still putting something in your mouth ,and setting fire to it...Your lungs are still taking in smoke.. Some of those herbs are just as deadly when set on fire..Much safer to cut a straw ,the same size as a cigarette and puff on this...Good clean fresh air...I'm sure our lungs will be very grateful..Although ..I didn't do either !!!!!I wanted to rid myself of the whole ...hand to mouth..addiction...
Yes, they are still full of tar & toxins. Still smoke in the lungs
In my experience as a 2+ pack smoker for 22 yrs, it's easier longer term to not 'romance'. I know what it's like to be a smoker, and it's not a romance. I never had the ability to go 4 hrs without a smoke. I think people who exercised some degree of self-control over their smoking habit have it more difficult over the long term. I know damn well when I'm a smoker, I'm smoking and that train has one throttle position. So there is no love lost. Smoking is 5 mins of pleasure and then 25 million wasted minutes before I build up the commitment to quit again. I just have to remember that while quitting wasn't that hard, building up the commitment to quit took me 7 yrs this last time. Finding the commitment is key to me. I found it this year. I have quit and I can't cheapen it's importance again.
Great post, Sam. This has been a tough year for me but the one good thing has been that I've also found my commitment to quitting and staying quit in May of this year and I know it will get even easier with time and fortunately time is all I've got- to commit to this quit and to a healthier life overall.
Hi samw and welcome to the QT :) I'm glad you have found that commitment you were looking for! You're right, quitting without total commitment makes the battle that much harder to win. I also found that once I truly started to believe that smoking never did anything positive for me and only enslaved me in a cycle of feeding a deadly addiction, it made things much easier for me to just push aside any urges to smoke. I know why I smoked all those years and now, I know I was just horribly uninformed about what smoking really is. There's a lot of good info. on this site and support too. We have all been there so we truly do understand what it's like to quit. All the best to you sam.
Hello and welcome Sam...We are all one cig ..away from a pack..Take smoking off the table ...no matter what...If you romance one...then you might as well romance the thousands to follow..There is tons of helpful stuff to read here...Take your seat ..and enjoy the ride...
Welcome abroad! Glad you've decided to join us & even happier that you have the opportunity! I've heard many times we are only 1 puff from the next 1000 or so! Everyday I Have to Stop myself from that one or so puffs! It isn't going to solve anything, calm me, fix me or anybody else & definitely won't change anything but make my health worse & change my status from non smoker to smoker! I choose to be a non smoker & deny myself self destruction w/cigarettes today!  I hope you decide to stay w/us for a joyful journey! Go ahead & enjoy the ride! We are here to stay free from the awful addiction caused by lighting up, chewing, or any other form of tobacco! Please join us, we have many great days ahead!
For sure. Up to 20 days! I've taken to nic-free vapor when having beers, but didn't use it to quit which I think is important. I like it though, it gives me an alternative for the long term to help me stay quit... But it's not addictive at all. I forget my vaporizer I hardly notice. I'm 40, I don't ever see me going back ever again. I have one more big hurdle on labor day and I have to finish the book I'm reading on quitting,  and I know I have to respect the addiction for the rest of my life. there's no chance I go back.
Good for you Sam...you sound positive ...Many roads lead to Rome...just get your ass there...that's the main thing....Day by day..this is how its done..labor day..is...just another day...no big deal....Onwards...
So very tru dat!!  Well done that woman.....     Wishing you a peaceful Christmas, and a Brave New Year....  
    Very encouraging words in this thread. Thank you all.
Well I made it 6 months without a smoke Truth be told I had 3 cigarettes in a row a few weeks ago at about 1 am. I was out drinking one night with a group of people I rarely hang out with.. so it gave me opportunity. I kinda rationalized it as my free New Years cheat, which I had thought about granting myself. But I didn't smoke on New Years or any other time in the last 6 months. They do say you can do that (reward if you earn it sort of thing) on diets, obvs I would not recommend it here.         I'll just reiterate.. not worth it. It only takes 1 for the cracks to start in your 'quit' psyche. I have noticed more urges since then. I still have absolute resolve, so its not that bad. Its been 3 weeks, hell I had beers the next night and didn't smoke. But I had almost forgotten to think about smoking until I had those. Even around friends who smoke, it's like I'll hang. I have 0 desire.      it's not ever worth cheating, it's like a crack in glass. You seriously weaken your mindset and have to start filling in the cracks again. I kinda understood this going in, but it totally reinforced by belief. People fail because they allow moments where they can cheat and that is impossible to stop the train once it starts going too fast. Edited January 26, 2018 by samw
    Thank you Same...for coming back and updating us on your quit...    We have to make sure our brains understand ...we are nicotine addicts...like any other addict ,there is no such thing as ..just one !!!!    Congrats on getting back on the train...stay in your seat... Buckle up...let's make this your sticky quit !!!!
    Come on back samw! There’s a seat on the train for you! 
One is too many and a carton is not enough.     I swear, nicotine should be a schedule one drug.  Right up there with heroin             Edited January 26, 2018 by Octain
I find myself romancing the cigarette too, sometimes, and since my quit is only 17 days old it's a dangerous feeling.       What helped was to go to the dentist and have a deep cleaning done. It was way over-due and I've been putting it off for a solid year!      It took 7 shots of novacaine and three and a half hours because they also replaced a bunch of metal fillings with ceramic ones.  After that experience (which was really a positive one despite all the dread and fear I had about mouth shots and drills) I don't want to foul my mouth up again with disgusting smoke.  The other side of my smile is going to be done in two weeks but now I feel like I'm so much cleaner.      I also got an hour long massage last week with the money I've saved from not smoking.
    No more stinky breath ,yellow teeth furry tongue...oh yes your mouth is so much nicer...    Why would you spoil all that....nooooo..... Aww a nice massage too...already you are gaining the lovely rewards...and they keep on coming ...enjoy them ....x
    I recommend keeping substitutions on hand for those cravings.    
On 1/6/2015 at 7:50 AM, Chrysalis said:             Subtitle: The Romance Is Dead!                                                          This is the time of year when many people quit smoking. Most especially, people who quit before but relapsed are trying again. I think that is wonderful (that they're coming back, not that they relapsed).                                        Reading their posts has made me realize that in very many cases, people relapse because they are still romancing the cigarette. That means that they still WANT to smoke even though they know that smoking does nothing good for them. They still remember those quietly satisfying evenings on the deck smoking. They remember that a-a-a-h-h-h! of satisfaction with the first long draw on a cigarette. And they want that again. And so even if they are weeks or months into a quit-- even though the PHYSICAL addiction is long gone-- they essentially choose to go back to smoking because of the pull of these romantic fantasies about how good smoking was.                                     Well, I was the poster child for romancing the cigarette. Throughout this quit and all my previous quits (of which there were several) I always wanted to smoke. I didn't smoke-- I controlled myself-- but I wanted to smoke. All the time. Almost every day. It seemed to me that after 4 or 5 months quit, almost everybody on the board was way done with smoking and happy about it. I still missed it. And that was frustrating because my rational brain KNEW that the "pleasure" of smoking was vastly over rated and mostly imaginary. I KNEW that I was romancing the cigarette and I really did not want to go back to smoking. But the seductive thoughts were there. Maybe not every day, but often enough to be very annoying.                                        I'm here to tell you that today, more than 9 months after my quit, I realize that I am not desiring a cigarette hardly ever! This is a first for me. And this death of the romance is not just a matter of time-- I quit smoking before for periods of up to a year and still suffered from romancing.                                      I think that the difference this time is that I educated myself about Nicodemon's lies. It's as though my rational brain has told my junkie brain over and over and over again "No, smoking is NOT pleasurable! And such small, brief pleasure as you feel when you smoke comes at way too great a cost! Forget it!" and finally, FINALLY junkie brain is quieting down. What a relief!                                     Now I do admit that during these "romancing episodes" that I'm talking about-- those days when I really, really wanted a cigarette-- I had to remind myself over and over again about why I quit smoking in the first place and remind myself over and over again that I wanted to quit more than I wanted to smoke. I had to FIGHT to keep my quit many, many times over the months. The urge to smoke wasn't constant, but it was frequent. Sometimes it was quite miserable.                                     I'm still jealous of people who seemed to have it easier than I did. I often thought that I was a "special snowflake" and I had it harder than other quitters-- few people admitted that they still wanted to smoke many months after a quit. But whether I had it worse than anyone else or not, I hung in there, reminded myself about why I quit, and that I was DETERMINED not to smoke.                                        Now, at last, I can look back over the last few weeks and realize that the romance is dead. I finally, finally am at the point where I do think about smoking once in a while but it's like a vague thought that is easily dismissed, not a serious desire. I have heard others describe this "vague thought" phenomenon many months after a quit and I finally understand what they are talking about.                                                         So I guess I am writing this to say that if you are many weeks or months into a quit and you still want a cigarette, you are not alone. What you are experiencing is real. It does happen to some people (like me, for example). You are romancing the cigarette and you have to use your rational brain, your smoking education, and your strong desire to quit to fight the urge. And eventually, sooner or later, you will turn around one day and realize that the romance is dead. You really don't have to fight to keep your quit anymore-- you just have to remain vigilant and committed.                                      Hang in there, folks!  You can DO this!                 bump,  you may want to read through the three pages of this post, it is really helpful
    Excellent post and excellent video...            
    I was going through this exact thing last night. I had an hour long drive and a playoff game. I was so nervous as it was my first one. I thought there was no way I would get through it without smoking. I even texted a friend and told her I was done. I could not wait to smoke that first one and feel that buzz from it after having not smoked for a few days. It's so irrational and I even said to my friend, I know that in the long run my nerves will be better not smoking and I won't be playing a match and waiting for my chance to smoke, I can more easily concentrate on what I am doing.        Well, I didn't stop and I made it through without having a smoke and I even won!!! I even had a couple of beers. I was supposed to meet up with some friends after but I decided to just go home because they were at a smoking bar. I had enough for one night...
This is fantastic ST! And, you called it right when you said;    "I know that in the long run my nerves will be better not smoking and I won't be playing a match and waiting for my chance to smoke, I can more easily concentrate on what I am doing."     YES! This is exactly it! See your quit through the tough and uncertain early days and you will be rewarded like you can't imagine. Freedom to enjoy whatever you are into without having to worry about the addiction's seductive call. Soon you will be happy to say: Piss Off I'm busy living my life!Edited July 13, 2018 by reciprocity
Next time a craving plunks down on your face ask yourself, "What price are you willing to pay to own yourself?"Edited July 26 by Siriusgrammar, grammar, grammar
    Don’t “romance” the cigarette. Addiction wants you to believe that you cannot control your thoughts. This is absolutely incorrect. You have direct control of your thoughts.    You absolutely CAN control what you think.      Cravings always go away. No matter how bad you want, the cravings always go away.    If you don’t give into that craving, it makes you even that much stronger.     Just keep in mind, the cravings always go away.         Cigarettes do nothing for you.      They take away your time, your money and you health.
The last cigaret I had was 2 years ago. Wow, couldn`t even imagine how much time has passed. I will lie to say I didn`t want to smoke after quitting, I think everybody here understands this. I have tried a lot of different ways to quit. I have read a lot on Vapingdaily about quitting methods like "cold turkey" or replacing cigarettes. I understood I can`t do it fast.   I moved to vaping with liquids that contain nicotine and every month I reduced the quantity of nicotine in my liquids. I don`t smoke/vape now and really happy my family has always supported me with this big problem. Because I understood I couldn`t control my addiction anymore.   Every time I want to smoke and remember this process I think how much money I had saved) Maybe this can help you too) Edited September 30, 2018 by rmayersLink to vaping site removed.
On 1/6/2015 at 7:50 AM, Chrysalis said:             Subtitle: The Romance Is Dead!                                                          This is the time of year when many people quit smoking. Most especially, people who quit before but relapsed are trying again. I think that is wonderful (that they're coming back, not that they relapsed).                                        Reading their posts has made me realize that in very many cases, people relapse because they are still romancing the cigarette. That means that they still WANT to smoke even though they know that smoking does nothing good for them. They still remember those quietly satisfying evenings on the deck smoking. They remember that a-a-a-h-h-h! of satisfaction with the first long draw on a cigarette. And they want that again. And so even if they are weeks or months into a quit-- even though the PHYSICAL addiction is long gone-- they essentially choose to go back to smoking because of the pull of these romantic fantasies about how good smoking was.                                     Well, I was the poster child for romancing the cigarette. Throughout this quit and all my previous quits (of which there were several) I always wanted to smoke. I didn't smoke-- I controlled myself-- but I wanted to smoke. All the time. Almost every day. It seemed to me that after 4 or 5 months quit, almost everybody on the board was way done with smoking and happy about it. I still missed it. And that was frustrating because my rational brain KNEW that the "pleasure" of smoking was vastly over rated and mostly imaginary. I KNEW that I was romancing the cigarette and I really did not want to go back to smoking. But the seductive thoughts were there. Maybe not every day, but often enough to be very annoying.                                        I'm here to tell you that today, more than 9 months after my quit, I realize that I am not desiring a cigarette hardly ever! This is a first for me. And this death of the romance is not just a matter of time-- I quit smoking before for periods of up to a year and still suffered from romancing.                                      I think that the difference this time is that I educated myself about Nicodemon's lies. It's as though my rational brain has told my junkie brain over and over and over again "No, smoking is NOT pleasurable! And such small, brief pleasure as you feel when you smoke comes at way too great a cost! Forget it!" and finally, FINALLY junkie brain is quieting down. What a relief!                                     Now I do admit that during these "romancing episodes" that I'm talking about-- those days when I really, really wanted a cigarette-- I had to remind myself over and over again about why I quit smoking in the first place and remind myself over and over again that I wanted to quit more than I wanted to smoke. I had to FIGHT to keep my quit many, many times over the months. The urge to smoke wasn't constant, but it was frequent. Sometimes it was quite miserable.                                     I'm still jealous of people who seemed to have it easier than I did. I often thought that I was a "special snowflake" and I had it harder than other quitters-- few people admitted that they still wanted to smoke many months after a quit. But whether I had it worse than anyone else or not, I hung in there, reminded myself about why I quit, and that I was DETERMINED not to smoke.                                        Now, at last, I can look back over the last few weeks and realize that the romance is dead. I finally, finally am at the point where I do think about smoking once in a while but it's like a vague thought that is easily dismissed, not a serious desire. I have heard others describe this "vague thought" phenomenon many months after a quit and I finally understand what they are talking about.                                                         So I guess I am writing this to say that if you are many weeks or months into a quit and you still want a cigarette, you are not alone. What you are experiencing is real. It does happen to some people (like me, for example). You are romancing the cigarette and you have to use your rational brain, your smoking education, and your strong desire to quit to fight the urge. And eventually, sooner or later, you will turn around one day and realize that the romance is dead. You really don't have to fight to keep your quit anymore-- you just have to remain vigilant and committed.                                      Hang in there, folks!  You can DO this!     Please, take the time to read through all the pages, there is lots of information, anecdotal evidence and a few vids.I would also like to postRed Flags here, which is a list of junkie thoughts that the addict uses to keep us enslaved.(Please,  add your own !)Pre Response to your own SOSand when you hit a wallPost an SOS !      Once you commit to NOPE,once you decide that SMOKING IS NOT AN OPTION,the struggle subsides to a certain extent.  The doubt vanishes.   You are not kicking and screaming your way into your quit,you will be building your quit with every crave you conquer.Every day of Freedom,  you will accumulate a nice big stash of confidence and self worth as well as health/wealth.You will learn to trust yourself instead of poisoning yourself.     Having a relapse is choosing to smoke.It is nothing more and nothing less.You deserve better, you deserve to choose Freedom.
    Bump.
Thank you Chrysalis,  I too have relapsed,  and was so envious of people who seemed to find it a lot easier than me. In one way I learnt more about myself the 2nd time around, but was searching for the reasons why in the end. Romancing is and was definitely on my agenda, I will need to create a different romance picture, at the moment I love my sweet little dog, and I sing and dance to her a lot. This will do for now because I am changing my eating behaviour once again (no cakes) this is a mental problem too. I am sure if I keep on reading and learning and listening I will be guilt free and continue to be smoke free too.
54 minutes ago, forestgreen said:               Romancing is and was definitely on my agenda,                   The way to prevent a relapse is to take smoking off the table and stand by your commitment to NOPE (Not One Puff Ever).     Root out any thoughts you may have that smoking is OK or that just one will be OK or that it was great to smoke.    Any thoughts are the LIES of addiction. We've heard and thought them all until we chose to control our thoughts and leave addiction in the dust.Red Flags   You must be merciless in this and leave no room, no room at all for relapse.        I am concerned, forestgreen...you often speak of the romance of nicotine.   What is romancing you ?  What remains enticing ?  What do you think you are missing ?
    When you totally understand this addiction ,when you see how the Big Tabacco Companies ..work so hard  to make sure we ..the poor smokers stay hooked for life ...  There is nothing left to Romance ..... poison......they have been poisoning us .... It's so slowly we are unaware.....it's only when are bodies carnt cope with it anymore ....it develops a chronic illness most of them fatal...  COPD is nothing to Romance ..trust me .....you really don't want to have this in your life ....
    I didn't realize I was romancing the cigarette, or that I am missing something, I am glad the cigarette is out of my life, I used to romance it, but then so did a lot of people on the movies in particular. I think my thoughts are mostly on trying to loose weight now, and this might be me romancing "my cake" I am missing my cake but I have devised a new Mantra for this.  Called I love savoury eats, not sweet eats.   I don't know how long this will last, but it might sink into my brain soon if I say it often enough. I can remember giving up sugar in my coffee and tea a very long time (decades) ago and was quite miserable for a while. Thanks for caring
1 hour ago, forestgreen said:                I don't know how long this will last, but it might sink into my brain soon if I say it often enough.               Repetition and time are powerful tools.     With patience and persistence, not only can you change your thoughts but also rewire your brain.  The same way we conditioned ourselves with cigarettes, we can also condition ourselves with positive things.
    Thankyou  Boo
I'm 16....right now I'm a teen, i'm having fun.  I enjoy smoking.  I can quit at any time.  So, I'll quit when...... I'm 20.. but life is a little stressful right now...I have 2 babies, working full time..saving to buy  a house....I'm still young and won't be affected long term by this smoking...no big deal...right?  I'll quit definitely by the time... I'm 25.....still a lot of my family and friends still smoke...they seem to be okay.  That must mean I'll be ok..My parents both smoked for years and they are both still healthy and vibrant...look at all these people outside..taking a smoke break with me...we are all ok right??? I'm 30.....starting to get a little nervous...my dad quit, my sister quit, handful of friends are jumping ship,.  I've had 15+ years of smoking now and fear is creeping in a little.  Fear of quitting..and never enjoying life as I know it...and  fear of never quitting and suffering a horrible disease and feeling the effects of smoking.  Time to dig that hole in the sand deeper and put my head in there...I'll quit when... I'm 36..Dad is diagnosed...Stage 4 lung cancer..inoperable.   :blink:  :(  My smoking has now doubled!  I know...he's dying and I'm smoking more...what is wrong with me?  As dad lie in a coma taking his last breaths...I whispered in his ear "I promise daddy, I'm going to quit smoking".  I purchased a copy of Allen Carr's easyway to quit smoking and I did it...I quit smoking!!  Yay me!!!! :)  3 months later...I start getting restless...cravings are coming left and right...I read the book again but the words aren't jumping out at me like they did when I first read it...I felt like I was losing my mind.  I looked at the back of the book and called a number they listed as support...It was in London.  The book was old and the number was for the publishing company, not a support line.  I was losing my strength...and ultimately relapsed. :(  I will probably be a smoker for life....I can't do this again.... The next 8 years are a blurr....that book remained on my shelf collecting dust--every once in a while I would glance at it with guilt and say...some day...maybe in the spring when it's nice out, maybe the summer, maybe the fall, after christmas,...new years resolution, after my birthday....ok..after spring again..one excuse after another. I was smoking more than ever. I did quit a few times during that time...few days or weeks..only to smoke again...always started with one puff.   Finally...at the age of 44...after all that struggle, relapse, disappointment, denial, and thousands of excuses....I finally picked up that book..knowing this was it...I was either going to quit for good this time...or I was going to remain a smoker till my death.  I knew I just didn't have another quit in me otherwise.  I can't keep going through the torture of quitting over and over..it's exhausting..and the pain from relapse is too distressing.   So, my final quit began.  Only this time...I knew that the quitting journey was a roller coaster and even though I feel strong in my quit one day...doesn't mean I will still feel that way the next.  I proved that on my last quit.  I Googled quit smoking support and got it.  Best thing I ever did to ensure that I would never smoke again.  I introduced myself and became a member.   Point of the story is....time moves so quickly..and the excuses are just that....excuses.  Before you know it...nearly 30 years have gone by.  The best time to quit is TODAY....tomorrow has a way of always being that carrot that dangles out in front of you...never able to reach it.  Addictions are design to hook you for life.   I do wish I quit sooner, I do wish I never smoked.  But wishing for something that is in the past,  is a waste of time.  The only thing I can change is what I do from now on. My quality of life is so much better today.  I am healthier, happier, and confident.  I have quite a smoking history and am full aware it may come back to bite me in the ass...however I will not die a smoker chained to addiction.  No matter what.  I am free.   If you are reading this and still smoking, please.....sign up...join today.  Read all the information here and in the blog and educate yourself about nicotine addiction. Don't just read once..read again and again and again until you "get it". You will never regret that you quit smoking but there is plenty of regret when you don't.    Quit today....no more excuses.
Brilliant post...as you say no more excuses,  folk will ALWAYS find an excuse to smoke....stop looking, start quitting.
Babs - I am sure that your Dad would be so proud of you - your little ones too. Fantastic post. Thank you.
^^^TRUTH^^^   Brilliant post...as you say no more excuses, folk will ALWAYS find an excuse to smoke....stop looking, start quitting.Ditto
Babs that was an excellent story.  I enjoyed reading it and you are right- "no more excuses".
thanks for that babs x NO MORE EXCUSES - PERIOD! and so say all of us......
No more excuses :)
now if I can only be as consistent with my exercise regime... no more excuses :)
That was just a great post and I agree your Dad would be proud I bet.  
Babs what a truly great read, and you are so right, no more excuses, otherwise another 2 or 5 or 10 years will have passed and before you know it its too late, WHAT IF and WHY DIDN'T I can't turn the clock back.  Your dad would be proud of the strength you have
Wow, great post. Pisses me off that I waited so long to finally quit. 
Awesome, out of the park! No more excuses. Carrot and stick? No matter how hard you run, you'll never get the carrot. That's what the stick is for, to beat ourselves up with. Love the post!
We live to make excuses for ourselves. Being accountable is something we all struggle with. I have watched people with COPD and emphysema struggle to breathe, yet they continue to smoke, convincing themselves that they NEED their fix; that they possibly couldn't quit, even if they tried. I watched and heard my mom suffer for the last few years of her life. The doctors told her she NEEDED to quit to save her life. She didn't and now she's gone at 59.  All of these are excuses.. lies we tell ourselves to make us feel okay about smoking. But it's not okay, because time does go fast. It's not worth it!  Value your life. Give yourself more time with your loved ones. You never know how much time you actually have, so appreciate every moment you have. No more excuses. :)
Excellent post! 
awesome post babs, I can relate to so much of it ... thanks for the reminder 
Bumping for our guests who are still on the fence about quitting.  No more excuses smokers...quit now!  You'll be glad you did!!!
Oh Babs....wonderful post! Today is Easter...look at the kids running around playing in your yard...do you want them to remember you as a smoker who just couldn't quit...not even for them? I smoked for 35 years....I quit 2+ months ago........IF I can do it...so can you!
Great post babs....I have 52 years of excuses......How many times did I say ....I'll quit tomorrow.......far too any....
Awesome post, babs, you described a whole lot of us, I just bet ya!  When I was a young teen, I figured I'd quit when I was 20, then I hit 20 and said 30, at 30 do you know how stupid I was??? I said I didn't need to quit because there would be "a cure" for lung cancer before I ever got it... the junkie mind has no rhyme or reason. I'm so proud of the young people that I see who are quitting nowadays... they seem to get younger and younger too; instead of being 50+ I'm seeing so many people 20+, 30+, etc.
bumping for any guests :)
Bumping your bump...great post Babs.
What a wonderful post, Babs! You said it well... fantastic! I'm so proud of you!
This is an awesome post!  So very true, we were all going to quit weren't we...I never intended to smoke as long as I did.  I thought I would quit when I had children.  Not so much.
Smoking is one of the hardest things to quit. I have tried at least 25 times, but in times of stress I go back. i HAVE to quit! Hardly anyone I know smokes anymore and some have died because of it !Welcome to the board, luckypoo!  So glad you found us.  You've joined a big group of quitters.  Would you please start a thread in Introductions and tell us a little bit about you and your quit?
Great post Babs.  I can't believe I almost smoked for 30 years.
I can't believe I smoked for 20.  I so identified myself by the addiction, and I didn't like myself too much.
Awesome post ... so well written and so true - I'm sure we all can relate to the "excuses"...  I was 12 when I started and 61 when I quit!!!!  I think I know all the excuses there are.Loving my life now :)
That was a great post. I´m sure your dad´s proud of you. We all are! 
EXCELLENT post Babs! I could relate so much to this, especially about making a promise to dad that you'd quit...so did I.
Today I will quit smoking, started when I was 12 I am 49 now. Through my smoking career I only quit once and that was for two years. I have a beautiful wife and two beautiful children and I feel like I'm Throwing It All Away with smoking and depriving my kids of my presence because I'm always looking for a place to go hide and smoke and an opportunity. Smoked quite a bit this morning, I drove by and through it all cigarette related items. Wrote down some things on paper to keep me motivated and just joined this site looking for any piece of help from anyone. Wish me luck no more excuses!
Today I will quit smoking, started when I was 12 I am 49 now. Through my smoking career I only quit once and that was for two years. I have a beautiful wife and two beautiful children and I feel like I'm Throwing It All Away with smoking and depriving my kids of my presence because I'm always looking for a place to go hide and smoke and an opportunity. Smoked quite a bit this morning, I drove by and through it all cigarette related items. Wrote down some things on paper to keep me motivated and just joined this site looking for any piece of help from anyone. Wish me luck no more excuses!
Today I will quit smoking, started when I was 12 I am 49 now. Through my smoking career I only quit once and that was for two years. I have a beautiful wife and two beautiful children and I feel like I'm Throwing It All Away with smoking and depriving my kids of my presence because I'm always looking for a place to go hide and smoke and an opportunity. Smoked quite a bit this morning, I drove by and through it all cigarette related items. Wrote down some things on paper to keep me motivated and just joined this site looking for any piece of help from anyone. Wish me luck no more excuses!Welcome to the board Alan!  Lots of great information, and lots of great quitters, here.  You can do this!
I'm 16....right now I'm a teen, i'm having fun. I enjoy smoking. I can quit at any time. So, I'll quit when...... I'm 20.. but life is a little stressful right now...I have 2 babies, working full time..saving to buy a house....I'm still young and won't be affected long term by this smoking...no big deal...right? I'll quit definitely by the time... I'm 25.....still a lot of my family and friends still smoke...they seem to be okay. That must mean I'll be ok..My parents both smoked for years and they are both still healthy and vibrant...look at all these people outside..taking a smoke break with me...we are all ok right??? I'm 30.....starting to get a little nervous...my dad quit, my sister quit, handful of friends are jumping ship,. I've had 15+ years of smoking now and fear is creeping in a little. Fear of quitting..and never enjoying life as I know it...and fear of never quitting and suffering a horrible disease and feeling the effects of smoking. Time to dig that hole in the sand deeper and put my head in there...I'll quit when... I'm 36..Dad is diagnosed...Stage 4 lung cancer..inoperable. :blink: :( My smoking has now doubled! I know...he's dying and I'm smoking more...what is wrong with me? As dad lie in a coma taking his last breaths...I whispered in his ear "I promise daddy, I'm going to quit smoking". I purchased a copy of Allen Carr's easyway to quit smoking and I did it...I quit smoking!! Yay me!!!! :) 3 months later...I start getting restless...cravings are coming left and right...I read the book again but the words aren't jumping out at me like they did when I first read it...I felt like I was losing my mind. I looked at the back of the book and called a number they listed as support...It was in London. The book was old and the number was for the publishing company, not a support line. I was losing my strength...and ultimately relapsed. :( I will probably be a smoker for life....I can't do this again.... The next 8 years are a blurr....that book remained on my shelf collecting dust--every once in a while I would glance at it with guilt and say...some day...maybe in the spring when it's nice out, maybe the summer, maybe the fall, after christmas,...new years resolution, after my birthday....ok..after spring again..one excuse after another. I was smoking more than ever. I did quit a few times during that time...few days or weeks..only to smoke again...always started with one puff. Finally...at the age of 44...after all that struggle, relapse, disappointment, denial, and thousands of excuses....I finally picked up that book..knowing this was it...I was either going to quit for good this time...or I was going to remain a smoker till my death. I knew I just didn't have another quit in me otherwise. I can't keep going through the torture of quitting over and over..it's exhausting..and the pain from relapse is too distressing. So, my final quit began. Only this time...I knew that the quitting journey was a roller coaster and even though I feel strong in my quit one day...doesn't mean I will still feel that way the next. I proved that on my last quit. I Googled quit smoking support and got it. Best thing I ever did to ensure that I would never smoke again. I introduced myself and became a member. Point of the story is....time moves so quickly..and the excuses are just that....excuses. Before you know it...nearly 30 years have gone by. The best time to quit is TODAY....tomorrow has a way of always being that carrot that dangles out in front of you...never able to reach it. Addictions are design to hook you for life. I do wish I quit sooner, I do wish I never smoked. But wishing for something that is in the past, is a waste of time. The only thing I can change is what I do from now on. My quality of life is so much better today. I am healthier, happier, and confident. I have quite a smoking history and am full aware it may come back to bite me in the ass...however I will not die a smoker chained to addiction. No matter what. I am free. If you are reading this and still smoking, please.....sign up...join today. Read all the information here and in the blog and educate yourself about nicotine addiction. Don't just read once..read again and again and again until you "get it". You will never regret that you quit smoking but there is plenty of regret when you don't. Quit today....no more excuses.  This is one of my all time favorite posts Thanks, Babs.
Beautiful post. Im 26 years old and quitting an 8 year addiction but already regretting ever taking it. I did nothing with my life when i was a smoker. But i have yet so much life ahead, i dont want to smoke again. Right now its a daily struggle fighting the cigarette romance, i really miss it i enjoyed it a lot or so i think. But ill not go down without a fight. NOPE!
Sazerac, thank you for reposting Babs' story. This post is so powerful it scares the crap out of me. I've read it over & over. I have smoked for 40 years. I WILL make this my final quit. I want to live & more so I want to live a good quality of life. Coughing, fear, months & years of promises to myself, the stench of cigarette smoke in my hair & on my clothes, hiding my dirty little secret....NO MORE! I WANT TO BE FREE! And only I can make that happen for myself. It's a choice but it's a necessity of a healthy lifesyle choice. And that power post makes me all the more determined to succeed. I CAN, I WILL. My personal pledge to Freedom.
I am almost  49 now...and happier than I have ever been! Loving my freedom! NO MORE EXCUSES!!
Good read. Missed this or forgot itI lived this but threw away a few more quits in there.  Now how about one and the kinky creature you are now.  16 backseat and bat got nervous, jumped in front and talked to you18 same car but burrito couldn't figure out the steering wheel on the correct side. Never left driveway18-45. Good girl46 saw 50 shades and tied up meathead. Wasn't very attractive man so drove the car into a lake and left him47 Bakon went by on his bike. What a ripped hunk and got his own restraints49. Celibate for two years now. Once you have bakon the rest is just old beef   Waiting on his return.
Lol. You are a trip bakon. What an imagination.  I love it!!   Love your stories and in all of them....we are always smoke free. 
Babs, your post is inspiring &I I need to keep reminding myself of the cold hard facts. I just smoked my last cigarette damn it! 62 yrs old , & I want to be strong as I can in my old age down the line. Everyone in my senior housing community smokes &a they look &I act so old gosh darn I want more for my later yrs than that. If something takes me down it's not gonna be by my own hand!  God knows the irreversible damage I've already done to my body but maybe I'll get sone of my healthy feeling back for my body.
Babs, your post is inspiring &I I need to keep reminding myself of the cold hard facts. I just smoked my last cigarette damn it! 62 yrs old , & I want to be strong as I can in my old age down the line. Everyone in my senior housing community smokes &a they look &I act so old gosh darn I want more for my later yrs than that. If something takes me down it's not gonna be by my own hand! God knows the irreversible damage I've already done to my body but maybe I'll get sone of my healthy feeling back for my body.Welcome to the board, Joybella!  Many of us quit after 40 or more years of smoking....and if we can do it, you can, too!
Joybella - You can start feeling a lot better and improve your quality of life in your senior years but only if you have the commitment to Never Take Another Puff. You know that one cig. even one puff, will lead you right back to where you are now. We are all nicotine addicts and the only avenue of escape is to quit for good. You have made that decision and with the support of your new friends here on this site, you will be able to do this. It won't be easy, especially in the beginning but it will get better with time and it will be so worth while for you. Let's do this together starting now. One day at a time. One hour at a time when necessary even 1 minute at a time. You CAN do it but, you MUST commit to not smoking; not even one puff, Not One Puff Ever; that's the NOPE daily pledge. Make that pledge daily and refocus yourself daily by doing that. Wist you well Joybella. We are here to cheer you on and support you all the way!
Welcome aboard joybella..I'm roughly your age...a 52 year smoker...it's never too late to quit...it might feel uncomfortable at the beginning..but wow...the beniefts far out weigh this...I feel better now than I did 20 hear ago..Make a decision never to smoke another one ..ever...read everything you can here...Post daily.. Pledge daily... All the support you need is right here...Alan Carr The Easy Way to Stop Smoking..is a great book...this has helped millions ,including alot of us here..You can do it...because I did...
You people are great. So much support. All you tell me gives me hope & so much more confidence that I can do this. Big nope Today. For sure I do have a 14 mg patch on but I don't think I'll need them for long. Cooking healthy soup today &I can find plenty to do around my apt to keep busy. Also I gotta remember to keep socializing as I tend to become a hermit while going thru this & I read last night that is a sign of relapse. GOD FORBID. I got Jesus right here with me too
You people are great. So much support. All you tell me gives me hope & so much more confidence that I can do this. Big nope Today. For sure I do have a 14 mg patch on but I don't think I'll need them for long. Cooking healthy soup today &I can find plenty to do around my apt to keep busy. Also I gotta remember to keep socializing as I tend to become a hermit while going thru this & I read last night that is a sign of relapse. GOD FORBID. I got Jesus right here with me too Good for you!  You CAN do this!
Well done...one day at a time...don't think beyond this...Keep busy...don't let your junkie brain win...NOPE !!!
Glad to hear this Joybella. You're determination sounds just right. Like Doreensfree said, one day at a time. Don't overthink it, just don't smoke. We're all cheering you on ..... Go Girl!!
That was wonderful. Very moving and awesome of you to put out. Good job. Let's hope it moves a lot of people to join us and continues to help us stay strong. I know it was a help to me this a.m.  "Whether you think you can, or you think you can't-------you're right".  Henry Ford.
I definitely relate to that Babs, I'm 45, I wish I quit sooner but I didn't and now have more consequences to deal with from smoking. If I continue smoking it will only get worse.
Why does our brain or mind or sub conscience tell us to go ahead and just have one cig? Is it the addiction talking?  
^^^  Yes, it is the addiction. It is a strong addiction and it is very crafty but you CAN beat it and already are by coming here and educating yourself about the addiction. Your addiction wants to be fed nicotine. It can't get that unless it convinces YOU to take a cigarette, put it in your mouth and light it so .... YOU have ALL the control here. You also know from reading here and maybe other places too that "just one" is a lie!! It's not possible. Just ask anyone who has relapsed. 1 cigarette or 1 puff - doesn't matter. It feeds the nicotine back into your body and awakens the addiction again making it stronger and you weaker. Don't ever believe what that voice is telling you! Read your list of reasons for quitting and stay strong. That voice will eventually get weaker and weaker - that's a promise!!
When a stupid craving comes, or dumb thoughts about how "great" smoking was and how I miss as it, I've been visualizing this:The  nicodemon, a small, roundish, ogre-like creature who has taken up residence in my belly since May 20th, is crying out for attention. I unceremoniously club him over the head. Hard. He sputters, "ouch!" shakes his head and looks weaker and goofier after every clubbing. (He's looking REALLY rough of late- has taken quite a beating over the last month.).  Anyway, that's what I've been doing and it also provides some comic relief to the situation. After all, if you can laugh about something, it really has no power over you whatsoever.  "Nic" is in for quite a surprise this weekend though... Monday morning I'm having a colonoscopy (my virgin voyage into this brand of deep, intense self-care).  For those who have already gone this route or know someone who has, you'll be aware that Sunday will be a day of liquid diet followed by a systematic cleansing of the plumbing at the rear of my personal abode. As such, "Nic" will be losing his place of residence in my belly and will end up you-know-where... to be flushed away for good.  Oh yeah... Monday's the day...
It's that little nico monster trying to lure you back in..its the drug,S nature ..the only way to kill it..Is to starve it until it dies..There is NO such thing as !! Just One !!...we are addicts..Once you introduce the drug back into your body.. The monster will be reborn..he will want more..until your back to square one...Starve him out...he's on his way out...x
Ugh. I have to reset my timer. I have been writing in my journal for about a month about how this or that cig will be my last... and then... It never is. Ive been lying to myself, giving in to what my addiction wants. I wrote myself a letter in my journal about how all I have ever wanted is to be free. I know I can do it, but I need to be stronger than my little desire or craving. Besides, it is not me who wants it, it's the nic  monster.
So, where are you hford? Is the nicodemon having it's way with you?Come back to where people who care about your future well being are waiting to support you in your quit journey. Choose life - not death!
Thanks Babs....   I started smoking when I was 12,  I quit the first time when I was 59....   Just gone sixty now and am determined this will be my sticky quit!     Cigarettes were never the anchors in our lives that hold us steady....  they were the ropes that kept us tied to the dock while life sailed by! - jwgIt is not because you quit...it is because you smoked.  It will pass! -  NancyEdited December 25, 2017 by OldybutmouldyChanged important bits to red text!  Technobimbo...
    I just read this again. Thank you, Babs, for writing it and please know how much it helps.
this is my 12th day of not smoking went to a bar 50 people smoking had a few drinks and I went home this is also about self control of course I'm addicted but I don't have to give into it today
    WTG, Boater!  Yes, you can have whatever kinds of feelings you may have but you don't have to act upon them.  Your job now is to keep that quit till the quit keeps you. (Hey, I like that one!)
    I don't look at this being that difficult they're not shooting at me
On 4/6/2014 at 9:39 AM, babs609 said:               I'm 16....right now I'm a teen, i'm having fun. I enjoy smoking. I can quit at any time. So, I'll quit when......                                       I'm 20.. but life is a little stressful right now...I have 2 babies, working full time..saving to buy a house....I'm still young and won't be affected long term by this smoking...no big deal...right? I'll quit definitely by the time...                                     I'm 25.....still a lot of my family and friends still smoke...they seem to be okay. That must mean I'll be ok..My parents both smoked for years and they are both still healthy and vibrant...look at all these people outside..taking a smoke break with me...we are all ok right???                                       I'm 30.....starting to get a little nervous...my dad quit, my sister quit, handful of friends are jumping ship,. I've had 15+ years of smoking now and fear is creeping in a little. Fear of quitting..and never enjoying life as I know it...and fear of never quitting and suffering a horrible disease and feeling the effects of smoking. Time to dig that hole in the sand deeper and put my head in there...I'll quit when...                                     I'm 36..Dad is diagnosed...Stage 4 lung cancer..inoperable. :blink:  My smoking has now doubled! I know...he's dying and I'm smoking more...what is wrong with me? As dad lie in a coma taking his last breaths...I whispered in his ear "I promise daddy, I'm going to quit smoking". I purchased a copy of Allen Carr's easyway to quit smoking and I did it...I quit smoking!! Yay me!!!!  3 months later...I start getting restless...cravings are coming left and right...I read the book again but the words aren't jumping out at me like they did when I first read it...I felt like I was losing my mind. I looked at the back of the book and called a number they listed as support...It was in London. The book was old and the number was for the publishing company, not a support line. I was losing my strength...and ultimately relapsed.  I will probably be a smoker for life....I can't do this again....                                       The next 8 years are a blurr....that book remained on my shelf collecting dust--every once in a while I would glance at it with guilt and say...some day...maybe in the spring when it's nice out, maybe the summer, maybe the fall, after christmas,...new years resolution, after my birthday....ok..after spring again..one excuse after another. I was smoking more than ever. I did quit a few times during that time...few days or weeks..only to smoke again...always started with one puff.                                     Finally...at the age of 44...after all that struggle, relapse, disappointment, denial, and thousands of excuses....I finally picked up that book..knowing this was it...I was either going to quit for good this time...or I was going to remain a smoker till my death. I knew I just didn't have another quit in me otherwise. I can't keep going through the torture of quitting over and over..it's exhausting..and the pain from relapse is too distressing.                                       So, my final quit began. Only this time...I knew that the quitting journey was a roller coaster and even though I feel strong in my quit one day...doesn't mean I will still feel that way the next. I proved that on my last quit. I Googled quit smoking support and got it. Best thing I ever did to ensure that I would never smoke again. I introduced myself and became a member.                                     Point of the story is....time moves so quickly..and the excuses are just that....excuses. Before you know it...nearly 30 years have gone by. The best time to quit is TODAY....tomorrow has a way of always being that carrot that dangles out in front of you...never able to reach it. Addictions are design to hook you for life. I do wish I quit sooner, I do wish I never smoked. But wishing for something that is in the past, is a waste of time. The only thing I can change is what I do from now on.                                        My quality of life is so much better today. I am healthier, happier, and confident. I have quite a smoking history and am full aware it may come back to bite me in the ass...however I will not die a smoker chained to addiction. No matter what. I am free.                                      If you are reading this and still smoking, please.....sign up...join today. Read all the information here and in the blog and educate yourself about nicotine addiction. Don't just read once..read again and again and again until you "get it".                                       You will never regret that you quit smoking but there is plenty of regret when you don't.                                       Quit today....no more excuses.          bunp
On 4/6/2014 at 3:39 PM, babs609 said:               I'm 16....right now I'm a teen, i'm having fun. I enjoy smoking. I can quit at any time. So, I'll quit when......                                       I'm 20.. but life is a little stressful right now...I have 2 babies, working full time..saving to buy a house....I'm still young and won't be affected long term by this smoking...no big deal...right? I'll quit definitely by the time...                                     I'm 25.....still a lot of my family and friends still smoke...they seem to be okay. That must mean I'll be ok..My parents both smoked for years and they are both still healthy and vibrant...look at all these people outside..taking a smoke break with me...we are all ok right???                                       I'm 30.....starting to get a little nervous...my dad quit, my sister quit, handful of friends are jumping ship,. I've had 15+ years of smoking now and fear is creeping in a little. Fear of quitting..and never enjoying life as I know it...and fear of never quitting and suffering a horrible disease and feeling the effects of smoking. Time to dig that hole in the sand deeper and put my head in there...I'll quit when...                                     I'm 36..Dad is diagnosed...Stage 4 lung cancer..inoperable. :blink:  My smoking has now doubled! I know...he's dying and I'm smoking more...what is wrong with me? As dad lie in a coma taking his last breaths...I whispered in his ear "I promise daddy, I'm going to quit smoking". I purchased a copy of Allen Carr's easyway to quit smoking and I did it...I quit smoking!! Yay me!!!!  3 months later...I start getting restless...cravings are coming left and right...I read the book again but the words aren't jumping out at me like they did when I first read it...I felt like I was losing my mind. I looked at the back of the book and called a number they listed as support...It was in London. The book was old and the number was for the publishing company, not a support line. I was losing my strength...and ultimately relapsed.  I will probably be a smoker for life....I can't do this again....                                       The next 8 years are a blurr....that book remained on my shelf collecting dust--every once in a while I would glance at it with guilt and say...some day...maybe in the spring when it's nice out, maybe the summer, maybe the fall, after christmas,...new years resolution, after my birthday....ok..after spring again..one excuse after another. I was smoking more than ever. I did quit a few times during that time...few days or weeks..only to smoke again...always started with one puff.                                     Finally...at the age of 44...after all that struggle, relapse, disappointment, denial, and thousands of excuses....I finally picked up that book..knowing this was it...I was either going to quit for good this time...or I was going to remain a smoker till my death. I knew I just didn't have another quit in me otherwise. I can't keep going through the torture of quitting over and over..it's exhausting..and the pain from relapse is too distressing.                                       So, my final quit began. Only this time...I knew that the quitting journey was a roller coaster and even though I feel strong in my quit one day...doesn't mean I will still feel that way the next. I proved that on my last quit. I Googled quit smoking support and got it. Best thing I ever did to ensure that I would never smoke again. I introduced myself and became a member.                                     Point of the story is....time moves so quickly..and the excuses are just that....excuses. Before you know it...nearly 30 years have gone by. The best time to quit is TODAY....tomorrow has a way of always being that carrot that dangles out in front of you...never able to reach it. Addictions are design to hook you for life. I do wish I quit sooner, I do wish I never smoked. But wishing for something that is in the past, is a waste of time. The only thing I can change is what I do from now on.                                        My quality of life is so much better today. I am healthier, happier, and confident. I have quite a smoking history and am full aware it may come back to bite me in the ass...however I will not die a smoker chained to addiction. No matter what. I am free.                                      If you are reading this and still smoking, please.....sign up...join today. Read all the information here and in the blog and educate yourself about nicotine addiction. Don't just read once..read again and again and again until you "get it".                                       You will never regret that you quit smoking but there is plenty of regret when you don't.                                       Quit today....no more excuses.  I read this post at the beginning of the week and have read it numerous times a day since.      It's heartbreaking and uplifting at the same time. I think most of us can recognise ourselves in there with perhaps just a slight change of circumstances.      Thanks for a great post that is obviously timeless.
Love this post @babs609  you have such a way with words. Thank you for sharing and I'm sorry about your daddy... I too lost my dad to smoking related cancerEdited November 30, 2018 by jillar
On 4/6/2014 at 9:39 AM, babs609 said:               I'm 16....right now I'm a teen, i'm having fun. I enjoy smoking. I can quit at any time. So, I'll quit when......                                       I'm 20.. but life is a little stressful right now...I have 2 babies, working full time..saving to buy a house....I'm still young and won't be affected long term by this smoking...no big deal...right? I'll quit definitely by the time...                                     I'm 25.....still a lot of my family and friends still smoke...they seem to be okay. That must mean I'll be ok..My parents both smoked for years and they are both still healthy and vibrant...look at all these people outside..taking a smoke break with me...we are all ok right???                                       I'm 30.....starting to get a little nervous...my dad quit, my sister quit, handful of friends are jumping ship,. I've had 15+ years of smoking now and fear is creeping in a little. Fear of quitting..and never enjoying life as I know it...and fear of never quitting and suffering a horrible disease and feeling the effects of smoking. Time to dig that hole in the sand deeper and put my head in there...I'll quit when...                                     I'm 36..Dad is diagnosed...Stage 4 lung cancer..inoperable. :blink:  My smoking has now doubled! I know...he's dying and I'm smoking more...what is wrong with me? As dad lie in a coma taking his last breaths...I whispered in his ear "I promise daddy, I'm going to quit smoking". I purchased a copy of Allen Carr's easyway to quit smoking and I did it...I quit smoking!! Yay me!!!!  3 months later...I start getting restless...cravings are coming left and right...I read the book again but the words aren't jumping out at me like they did when I first read it...I felt like I was losing my mind. I looked at the back of the book and called a number they listed as support...It was in London. The book was old and the number was for the publishing company, not a support line. I was losing my strength...and ultimately relapsed.  I will probably be a smoker for life....I can't do this again....                                       The next 8 years are a blurr....that book remained on my shelf collecting dust--every once in a while I would glance at it with guilt and say...some day...maybe in the spring when it's nice out, maybe the summer, maybe the fall, after christmas,...new years resolution, after my birthday....ok..after spring again..one excuse after another. I was smoking more than ever. I did quit a few times during that time...few days or weeks..only to smoke again...always started with one puff.                                     Finally...at the age of 44...after all that struggle, relapse, disappointment, denial, and thousands of excuses....I finally picked up that book..knowing this was it...I was either going to quit for good this time...or I was going to remain a smoker till my death. I knew I just didn't have another quit in me otherwise. I can't keep going through the torture of quitting over and over..it's exhausting..and the pain from relapse is too distressing.                                       So, my final quit began. Only this time...I knew that the quitting journey was a roller coaster and even though I feel strong in my quit one day...doesn't mean I will still feel that way the next. I proved that on my last quit. I Googled quit smoking support and got it. Best thing I ever did to ensure that I would never smoke again. I introduced myself and became a member.                                     Point of the story is....time moves so quickly..and the excuses are just that....excuses. Before you know it...nearly 30 years have gone by. The best time to quit is TODAY....tomorrow has a way of always being that carrot that dangles out in front of you...never able to reach it. Addictions are design to hook you for life. I do wish I quit sooner, I do wish I never smoked. But wishing for something that is in the past, is a waste of time. The only thing I can change is what I do from now on.                                        My quality of life is so much better today. I am healthier, happier, and confident. I have quite a smoking history and am full aware it may come back to bite me in the ass...however I will not die a smoker chained to addiction. No matter what. I am free.                                      If you are reading this and still smoking, please.....sign up...join today. Read all the information here and in the blog and educate yourself about nicotine addiction. Don't just read once..read again and again and again until you "get it".                                       You will never regret that you quit smoking but there is plenty of regret when you don't.                                       Quit today....no more excuses.      BUMP
    Thank you for this....This could totally be me.  I've ridden the same roller coaster and when my mom was diagnosed with Gastric cancer I started smoking more and here I am a year and a half after her death realizing that I have to do it today.  There's always an excuse, bargaining.  I'm gonna be stronger this time!  I will definitely come back to read this in my times of weakness.
    We're all here for you @Control Freak. You can succeed just like the rest of us, be sure to post an SOS too if you feel yourself caving to a crave so that we can help you past it  
to:   QTrainre:  first days nicotine Free In your First Few Days, while the Nicotine left your body, what helped you ? For me,  it was Sleep  (assisted with over the counter sleep medication or whisky).Ice Water.Satsumas, Citrus.Deep, deep breaths.Long 'singing' showers. (If I had known about y'all,  I guarantee I would have been here)  Edited to avoid controversy as to method of quitting smoking.I just want to know what helped you while nicotine left your body.Edited September 21, 2014 by Sazerac
Being here,lol and read, read, read. Also staying busy helped me.  :)
WaterDancingCleaningNaps Basically kept busy and posted like a woman possessed :)
The people that are here, water, pretzels, twizzlers, cranberry juice, sleep, sleep, sleep, solitude, a pillow to scream into, talking to my mom about what I was going through (She is 5 years quit this month!), my treadmill.Oh and cookies. I rode the wave often.
Deep breathing, reading and posting here, scrubbing the stale smoke smell out of my house, more deep breathing, reminding myself of why I quit in the first place, more reading and posting here, thinking to myself "Just 5 more minutes. Just 5 more minutes. Just 5 more minutes...." more deep breathing, napping, more reading and posting here... [i think you got the picture. :) ]
Allen Carr audible helped me.  Exercise, however much you can do can 'fill the void.'Repeating to myself that smoking was just flat off the table, to avoid inner debate.
After smoking for so long my body went berserk...I stayed with the board sometimes nearly 24hours a day....sleep no chance....I read I read,and then I read some more....I recieved so much support,I would  never have made it on my own.....Shouting aloud the slogans....not sticking anything in my mouth and setting fire to it...My I pod.....singing to my music...If I can quit ,anyone can....
Run. Not long - 5 minutes - as long as smoking the cigarette would have taken... as fast as you can keep it up for 5 minutes. Guaranteed you won't want a smoke for quite a while afterword. Want to kill the craves for all day? Go on a 10-miler.   Easy Peasy
Allen Carr, the board, deep breathing, jumping jacks, candy and  http://youtu.be/5dbvckNVbK4
Fruit juiceLemon candyCold waterLess coffeeReading Why Quit.comTelling everyone that I quitGetting my car cleaned
I mainly looked at non smoking cats and dogs. ... Seriously .
Keeping busy doing anything but mainly  cleaning. I really didn't sit down much. Chewing straws. Drinking water. Going on walks. Gum and strawberry candies. Reading message boards. 
Had man flu and chest infection for the first couple of weeks of my quit - so there was a lot of sleep involved... Then moved onto chewing regular menthol gum, reading and writing on the board, and doing projects around the house - honestly, I have no idea where I found the time to smoke!! ETA - Sally, great idea btw ;)
Deep breathing, chewing gum, cleaning, reading, logging on here every 5 mins to reassure myself I wasn't going mad, and telling myself NOPE even if it was every few seconds, and leaning on you lovely lovey people, wouldn't be here if it wasn't for you xxx
I kept log on other site. Got it in signature over there.NOPE.   Said it again and again. 
babs one of my first responders- helped me at beginning and even now. if anyone reads it, its long and I wish I had it over here. realize I left there for here due to the methods changed and mq and his misfits brought me with them. stay here.
I wish I had done a blog....it would have great to go back....just to remind me of how far I have come....
sleepbreathing exercisesgreen teawateryoutube hypnosis videoskeeping busyexercisingeating I was working at the time and had not found the forum by then I was pretty much house bound jumping on the spot helped, focusing on being healthy, spent alot of time preparing healthy food which takes time with hands and mind first 3 days all abit of a blur but not half as bad as I had feared before i quit!
http://www.quitsmokingmessageboard.com/index.php?/topic/43688-starting-now/babs one of my first responders- helped me at beginning and even now. if anyone reads it, its long and I wish I had it over here...Lmao - from day two - "Watching your counters is helpful too. No problems so far, son in hospital with broken hand. Getting surgery now, so just sitting around watching people walk by carrying their oxygen. Easy."  Me? I spent the first days in a fever induced semi coma, and the chest hurt to much to choke down more than a puff or two. The vape pipe was making me gag. After I sorta came to I lived on the forums and read the literature. The joel videos were my favorite. Read the Allan Carr book right off the bat.
Stay busy.... don't dwell.
Thank you Everybody It was interesting to see what worked for so many successful quits. We need to bottle that stuff up... S
At the beginning:  Attitude was my biggest weapon: I do not smoke anymore! Also used nicorette gum for the first week or two to help with cravings!  NOW: Attitude is still my biggest weapon: I do not smoke anymore!  IN THE FUTURE: Attitude is going to be my biggest weapon: I do not smoke anymore!
I also decided to drink tea which I never did before. I bought different kinds and fussed around with tea things during my break at work. It really helped me to have something to do other than go outside and smoke. ...today I had an orange tea at about 11:00 . Good to give me "some thing" until lunch
Walking, whiskey, and cookingnot in that order
Thank you for pinning this, MQ. I can't wait to refer newbies, or anyone who is struggling with craves, to this thread. 
If you are feeling stressed out or anxious or have difficulty sleeping (all common symptoms when you quit smoking), I highly recommend this 30-minute mindfulness meditation by Jon Kabat-Zinn. It's available for free on Youtube here:  Mindfulness with Jon Kabat-Zinn
to:   QTrainre:  first days nicotine Free In your First Few Days, while the Nicotine left your body, what helped you ? For me,  it was Sleep  (assisted with over the counter sleep medication or whisky).Ice Water.Satsumas, Citrus.Deep, deep breaths.Long 'singing' showers. (If I had known about y'all,  I guarantee I would have been here)  Edited to avoid controversy as to method of quitting smoking.I just want to know what helped you while nicotine left your body.  Newbies who have this fresh in your memory or anyone who hasn't posted, please post the things that helped you through your first days. Your experience will help others during the first days. Thank you,S
I get the fuzziest head when I quit smoking.  I can't think properly so I just learnt to go with the flow.  I had to be pretty accepting of myself particularly when I kicked a fence when a dog barked aggressively at me. For some reason I needed to drink a lot of water.   I was soooo thirsty.  Every day for the first week I've drunk at least 3.5 litres a day.  Sometimes I needed a lot of exercise.  I did a lot of walking and some weights but other days I was really fatigued and had a sleep.  I just had to get used to a new normal for a while until my body gets back to normal without nicotine.
For me it was:   Drinking lots of water Cinnamon hard candies No Coffee No Beer Running P90  and the most important thing.. NOT ROMANCING THE CIGARETTE.
Planned a special treat to look forward to.Used the Free NHS Quit Kit and found calendar really helped.Bought an E-Cigarette for emergency.Stuck notes everywhere to remind me why I was quitting.Slept.Fruit gums.If I had known about this forum helped I would have joined sooner!
.
I feel like the first few days is sort of a tug of war between "Yay I quit" and feeling strong and prepared with some moments of junkie thinking and self doubt. ALL temporary seeing as once you climb the hill you question how you could even think like that to begin with. My experience was very uplifting and powerful (coming from a ex relapser). As uplifting as it was it was still a struggle at times, the things that helped me with my first few days were;staying close to the board, read, re-read material until you can't read any more (everyone here knows what you are going through and that support really made a world of a difference)Allen Carr Material - relate it to yourself as much as you can (find examples of what you used to do) Drink lots of water (3L + a day) Journalling - made a one week journal and wrote everything from smoking problems to work issues.A questioning obsession with gum (it is slowly disappearing)I vowed to pledge NOPE for 365 days - and then some, but made a commitment to myself - this made me feel apart of something bigger than my smokingI ignored other people (more so close friends) who claim to quit but never follow through - their problem not mine (smokers like to feed off one another)Lots of exercise (which I did before but have more energy now) remembered to only tackle one day at a time :) Yikes, feel like I rambled :). Hope this helps!  Blessed be
For me I was just ready - I am at a good point in my life -I decided to focus on my future and my kids. I told my closest friends so I would be held accountable, I did not tell my family or children because I didn't want that kind of pressure. I came to the QT curious and ready - I was still smoking and had planned a quit date but after being on the site I was more addicted to the quit then actually smoking. I downloaded the ticker app on my phone and looked at it religiously when I couldn't hop on the site - It was a quest or a fun game for me to see how many days I could go and how many cigarettes I didn't smoke- I challenged myself but also avoided drinking unless it was a few drinks at night at my house (I do not drink and drive so I knew if I had a few drinks I would not even consider going to the store just to buy cigarettes) that helped because I got used to having a drink or two or more ;)  without smoking - then it just became normal for me. I don't really ever sleep much but instead of waking up at 2:30 and having a cigarette - if I woke up and couldn't sleep I would do some push ups and some pull ups and then back to bed. Change all routines that lead to smoking it is vital. This site and the people here gave me the strength and conviction to stay quit. Can't express gratitude enough.
Water, water, lots of water!SleepingDeep breathsPosting here all day Help from all the guys in the forumPosting SOS when you need itDrawing (keeping yourself busy) It´s worth it! -Nat  
Keeping busy.Merlot. Switched from white to red.Cutting down on coffee. Switched to green tea at work.Trying not to dwell on it! Deep breathing.
Crochet, Hot Tea, Coloring, Lollipops and Gum, Long hot showers,Video Games, Naps and snuggling my baby. ETA: I misunderstood this post, this is how I got through my first days not smoking but I am using NRT.
I quit cold turkey so i knew that the first few days will be tough, and if i can get past that then i can truly give it up completely. The first day will be bad and you will often feel the urge to light up but you also become more aware of your triggers. On the second day you first feel proud that you could actually go without a smoke for one entire day and for me that was huge motivation to carry on for another day. On the third day, you are even more proud of your accomplishments, there are still strong urges to smoke at times, but it is less frequent now. On the fourth day i saw a drastic reduction in my desire to smoke and the urges were reduced substantially as well. I remember on this day i had to drive for a good hour for a long meeting with a client, and normally after such a meeting i would have been running back to my car to grab a smoke, but this time i did not feel like i needed it and this was an awesome feeling.  Remember that when you were smoking you were essentially taking a break from an activity, and i felt that it was important to still takes those breaks when you get the urges, but now fill those breaks with other tasks. I started browsing the news, taking a walk, eating a few snacks, and yes drinking lots of water.
Quitting is scary. The scary bit is BEFORE the quit. Fearing failure, or worse fearing success...the fear of NEVER having another cigarette. SCARY! So when I quit, I always focused on being Happy. I had done it. I quit. That's good news! Then sipping water. Keeping busy.
Drinking senseo cups of decaf and tea with sugar. In my 6th day I'm close to leave sugar behind!Keeping busy, laundry faulding, washing clothes, visiting my smoking neighbor (YES!) to face my smonster and it was a huge conquer; but this might not be suitable for everyone!
I Looked at Smoking Cessation sites to see what I was in for. Tried to cut down on smoking for a month before....unfortunately if I had cigarettes in the house I smoked them. Made a quick Quit Date: once this pack was gone I would not smoke again (and so far I haven't). Told family & friends I had quit smoking so it would be harder to go back without feeling like a failure. Made the choice to use Nicoderm gum....I had failed too many times in past trying  going cold turkey....I'm a 40 yr Smoker. Knowing I have mild COPD & only cure is stopping smoking. Losing my 6 yrs younger brother to a horrible death with lung cancer. Looking at my grandbabies & knowing they would be devastated to lose me. I take one day at a timeOnly use gum if I have to...but use it if I need to....beats a cigaretteSleep when I can...insomnia will go away soonPost on this site  & read everything I can...watch videos on the site....keep close to the boardwas up in morning & say "I am a non smoker" & feel proudDrink lots of waterChew "regular" gum....I am so afraid of  gaining weight...this curbs my appetite.
Repeated - Smoking is not an option.Water. lots and lotsSlept when I wanted or neededTook long epsom salt bathsRead here often but couldn't get it together enough to post Read everything Pinned in the Quit Smoking Discussion thread (good stuff!)Watched lots of videosHad a good supply of carrots, wintergreen lifesavers, gum gum gumCried freely and oftenSwore freely and oftenOrdered out for food when I was too scrambled to cook a meal.
Used a forum alot whine all the time to the members there.Cold water, exercise and keeping busy. Just have your sights on the day you are in, get yourself through that day as tomorrow will take care of it's self.Complete stubbornness got me through, after all I'm not going to be beaten by a dead plant!    
Drink tea / coffee with lotsa Sugar, or cola or soda. Faced my smoking neighbor first day, where i iused to relapse and didn't smoke, posted a lot, sos if needed, cycled lots 
Quitting is scary. The scary bit is BEFORE the quit. Fearing failure, or worse fearing success...the fear of NEVER having another cigarette. SCARY!This!  That has always been the scariest monumental thought!!  Never!? Never ever ever!?!  Lol, 1 day at a time is good for me.
Done some workouts,watching some movies and went off to a friend home on that first day.. then i last long for a 2weeks of quit. The next week i get uses some cigar's but not that much i used before. And again i doing the same think (workouts,movies) to divert myself from cigars Note: i not a complete quiter yet. i just trying to bring the things under control.. then make it quit i hope ^_^ ^_^ ^_^
Done some workouts,watching some movies and went off to a friend home on that first day.. then i last long for a 2weeks of quit. The next week i get uses some cigar's but not that much i used before. And again i doing the same think (workouts,movies) to divert myself from cigars Note: i not a complete quiter yet. i just trying to bring the things under control.. then make it quit i hope ^_^ ^_^ ^_^ It's better to simply quit nicotine all at once because when you're still smoking (even cigars) you're keeping yourself in withdrawal.  Not fun!  I could never advocate smoking for any reason but if you wanted to use a NRT product, that could help.  The goal is to get completely off of the drug, nicotine and never go back to it.
This is my plan (Hope it works): Now i trying to quit, So why not to bring that down step by stepFirst Step: try and do 1 week off...may use 1 per day...Second Step: 2 weeks off..may use 1 for a couple of days.....and so on i dont know ..its going to work or not but let a try is not a bad idea Hi Josephheg, and welcome to the Quit Train. First, congratulations on your decision to try to quit smoking! Helping you succeed is why we're all here, and so I hope you don't mind if I add my own thoughts about your plan to cut down smoking a little bit at a time. Many people on this board have different ideas about the best way to quit smoking, but I'm fairly sure that most of them will agree with what I'm about to say. Quitting by cutting down SOUNDS like a good plan, but it probably isn't. I bet almost all of us have tried to "get it under control" a number of times, and failed. The reason is because we're addicted to nicotine, and by cutting back a little bit at a time we're just prolonging our suffering and reinforcing how hard it is for us to stop. We might seem to succeed for a little while, but eventually we'll run out of willpower and go right back to where we where before. And then we have to start all over again, and we feel more powerless than ever. If we just QUIT, then we have to endure withdrawing from nicotine for a few days or weeks - mostly the first week is the worst part - and then it quickly gets easier and easier, until after a while we start to forget what it was even like to smoke. Please take 7 minutes to watch this youtube video from a quit smoking expert - he's talking about exactly this issue, and he explains it very well:
Reminds me of pulling a plaster of a sore....It might hurt so I'll do it very slowly... Ow,ow.ow....Much better to do it in one swift pull...it done over with...
Stay busy.... don't dwell. I love this, ChRiSpY, because that is exactly the trick for the first days and super advice for life in general. Stay Busy.....Don't Dwell. It helped me todayfor something not nicotine related,just another life lesson learned and used.
Here is another thread about thisTools and Options to Beat Craves
bump for Ruby
Sleep. Until the 5 month mark i slept 12 hours a day. I was very gloomy so at 9pm i thought screw it and just went to bed. I still dont enjoy life as much to this very day but at least im not sleeping so much now.
Sleep. Until the 5 month mark i slept 12 hours a day. I was very gloomy so at 9pm i thought screw it and just went to bed. I still dont enjoy life as much to this very day but at least im not sleeping so much now. How can a person sleep 12 hours a day when we have career's? It's not like I can take 5 month's off work simply because I stopped smoking. I hope you will begin to enjoy life. Cigarettes are not what will bring you joy. We both know that. It is finding that 'something' that FEELS like joy, I guess  like smoking did to you?..... All I can say to the new people who want to become a non-smoker is: first off, you want to WANT IT, and badly. Not just because of health reasons, family, friends etc. YOU are the one who has to want it, and then YOU are the one who will go through whatever your body will do when you stop feeding {smoking} the poison. It is not a fun little stroll in the park..not at all. But every hour, every day you can say 'wow, I didn't smoke for {x} amount of time'...will hopefully make you want to keep setting another short goal. Maybe another hour, 1/2 a day and so on.It still sucks. For me anyway, it sucked bad. In spite of all the health risk blah blah blah, there were times I did enjoy a cigarette with my coffee. A cigarette with my friend's on wine night. Or a cigarette when I was pissed off at the world. Now.........I drink tea, don't go out on wine night, but still get pissed at the world and find something else to do rather than focus on not smoking. It is NOT easy.
I have an excessively large bag of jolly ranchers.  I pop one in when I get a craving, when I'm bored or when I'm in the carI bought some aromatherapy candles and lotions.  Nothing calms me faster than a good smelling lotion, which actually smells good because you can smell it!!! Sniff the cravings away.Lots of water - I like carbonated water as it feels like I'm having a pop...makes it feel like a treatSupport from Quit Train (what a godsend)If I get a particularly bad craving on the weekend, I might take a quick napREADING (been my new habit)Going to a movieTaking my husbands never-smoked-in truck vs my smoked-in-everyday car
Taking in some real good deep breaths..get some nice clean air into your cleaning lungs.xxGoing for a walk..great when you get a crave..healthy too..
This is my 12 quit day   Had 3 cigarettes yesterday after 10 strong days of NOPE. Now I gotta start all over. Sooo hard cause I get really gloomy &I cry like a blubber a lot plus get pissed at my boyfriend who I also made my ex. Yesterday.  Well HERE I GO AGAIN.   So hard. Glad you are all here for us.
Hi joy..welcome...You need to read all you can  alot easier when you have the right tools..There is heaps of information here.to get you on your wayway..This is your day one ,if you smoked yesterday...smoking won't solve anything... Just make matters worse..Stay close..
Hey Joybella :) I'm glad you came back to us. Please also go to the dedicated daily NOPE pledge page here and pledge your NPE every day. It will help you focus on what you need to do each day. You are right, this isn't easy at all and the emotional part is particularly hard to deal with but if you want it badly enough, you will find a way to deal with the emotions without lighting up again. Your emotional state will get better with time, probably not as fast as you would like but it does get better. Have you spoken to your doctor about your quitting plan and what options there are to help you cope with the emotional aspect? That might e worth a try. Anything you can do to get you firmly established in your quit will be a very good thing. I look forward to following your journey. We'll be here to support you in any way we can :D
So glad you responded Doreen. Start tomorrow fresh by saying nope again. I'll be brave & do cold turkey   So fearful of withdrawals thou. Maybe it will be best if I buy a pack & leave unopened that way I can stare it down. My best friend smokes so when I go over I'll bring my pack. I'm really testing my resolve. But at least I won't be inclined to bum one. 
Thanks for being here for me Doreen. I'm going to make tomorrow my new quit date. I'm going to use my patches again for a while thou couple days on 21mg then cut down to 15mg. for a couple weeks then 7mg for a couple weeks &I I should be strong enough & away from it long enough that I will succeed.
Reciprocaly thanks for your support too. I've decided to do the patches over a months time gradually lowering dose of patch &I then I'm sure I'll be on the road to success. 
What ever you think will work best for you then, try it. In the end though, understand that this will come down to you wanting to be smoke free more than being a smoker. I would strongly recommend that you do not buy a pack of cigs. This is not a good idea under any circumstances. If they are that available, the temptation to light up is likely to get the better of you in the early days of your quit. Also, tell your friend you are quitting smoking. Your friend should know about this and I would think they will be supportive to you. Let us know how you're doing. We are here to lend support as needed  :)  Please also read all the information you can about this addiction. Once you truly understand there is no benefit to smoking, you will be able to give it up much more easily.
Have real cravings this afternoon want to bum cig from neighbor.  Gotta breathe & read  all my supporters posts!
Have real cravings this afternoon want to bum cig from neighbor. Gotta breathe & read all my supporters posts! There is only one way to kill the cravings for good...stop smoking.  With every NOPE the addiction loses its power and eventually cravings become a thing of the past.  Don't feed the beast. Everything you're feeling now (withdrawal, obsessive thoughts, etc.) is temporary.  The freedom gained from soldiering on through the rough patches will last you a lifetime.
Yes Joybella - you have to just power through these early days. I know it gets tiring trying to fight the urges to smoke but you just have to not give in and resist those urges to smoke. Today's struggles will give you strength to face tomorrow and things do start to settle down after a bit. It's different for everyone in terms of time frame but things do get better. Just take it one day or even one hour at a time. It WILL get better - I promise!! Come on here and read everything you can about the addiction of smoking. I spent a few days doing almost nothing else. Do whatever you need to do not to smoke.You CAN do this! We stand behind you in this fight :)
Keep busy..do anything...do jigsaws... Colouring books..puzzles...Come here and read till your eyes bleed...That little nico monster ..he's going to try and mess with your head...your stronger than he is..Tell him to naff off...your a beautiful non smoker...Your doing great ..believe it....
Well.. I'm back   feeling bad I started smoking again
Just dust yourself down...throw all cigs and lighter away..jump back on the train..your seat is still here..Have you read Allen Carr the easy way...if not I strongly recommend it asap...Learn by this..what went wrong..??....be ready next time...that little nico monster will try and lure you back...We have a SOS...post there before you smoke...if you need us...Never stick anything in your mouth and set fire to it...do anything else you can think of...You know you don't want to be a smoker..because you found us...make that firm stand...Read all old post here..watch all the video,S...so much info here..to help...
Joybella you can do this lad, anyone can. Commit to NOPE daily and stay strong. I wish you the best. :)
 Now I'm smoking & wishing I had stuck with saying NOPE.  No need to wish, you just do it.  All that time spent smoking and hating it, thinking about quitting, feeling trapped by the addiction and the self-loathing that comes with that...that's more of a burden than quitting smoking is.  I'm a failure at this I think. Really disappointed in myself thou.  Just because you haven't done it yet doesn't mean you can't do it right now.  Learn about the addiction.  Commit to the quit.  Start enjoying the benefits of freedom from nicotine immediately.  It is a simple process that will benefit you in so many ways.
Yes Joybella, what these others have said is true and yes, we are all here to support you but I think you know that you alone are the final deciding factor in quitting successfully. All of us were once in the same position as you are in now. The only way through is to just put up with the crummy feelings that come along with the early quit. They won't kill you and they won't last forever. It gets better as time goes on.  As others have said. Read as much as you can about this addiction. Watch the videos available right here on this site. Know what you are fighting for and why. Realize you CAN do it and commit to the quit! You can do it - believe in yourself :D
Just dust yourself down...throw all cigs and lighter away..jump back on the train..your seat is still here..Have you read Allen Carr the easy way...if not I strongly recommend it asap...Learn by this..what went wrong..??....be ready next time...that little nico monster will try and lure you back...We have a SOS...post there before you smoke...if you need us...Never stick anything in your mouth and set fire to it...do anything else you can think of...You know you don't want to be a smoker..because you found us...make that firm stand...Read all old post here..watch all the video,S...so much info here..to help...
Thank you thank you thank you I'm going to jump back on this train you are all my lifeline of support. 
Good decision Joybella. Think about what you learned from having just relapsed. Why you did and how bad you felt after you had that first cig. Be stronger than the urge next time. Educate yourself about the addiction because as you do, you will understand the lies we tell ourselves about smoking. Smoking solves nothing and only adds to your problems. Stay close here and post your daily pledge in the NOPE thread every day. It will help remind you each day what you need to do for yourself. Let us know how you're doing too :)
Bumped for you kiwi..lots of suggestions here...Every crave you win..your nearer to winning your war..Sometimes I shouted nope all day..
Garden! Grow something. Or at least pull some weeds. I'm not quite 24 hours in here and I am flipping out. So right now, I am on my way outside to play with my cacti. Cacti like to give kisses and yes love hurts---- but it does reward you with some truly awesome flowers in the desert. Great time of year right now so I'm going to go outside and groove on some plants and flowers rather than thinking about cigarettes. Plus it is kind of hard to think about cigarettes when you're looking for the tweezers and magnifying glass to get little needles out of your fingers. Let's see after an hour or two of yardwork I can do the dishes, the dog needs walked, the rugs need vacuumed, I can take a nap then I can do some real work for a few hours, then I can make dinner, then I can walk the dog again, then I can do 3 loads of laundry, then I can do some ironing and then I can....   Gee....what on Earth am I going to do tomorrow?  So what's everyone else doing the next few hours?
I'm working from home today as well as taking care of some house repair/maintenance stuff. Good idea to keep busy during your early quit. Keep yourself occupied and not only will that help distract you; you'll have the cleanest & most organized house in the State by the time your 1st week is over :PI know you're feeling completely miserable now, it's just part of the process. The intense misery won't last that long and once you are through it, you'll be well on your way to securing your quit :)Come here often and let us know how you're doing. Also be sure to keep focused on your reason for quitting. Keep that in the front of your mind as it will help you through this tough part. Reflect on how far you've come even if it's just a day or two. The early days are really hard work so you don't want to throw that all away or have to repeat it. I know these two things kept me moving forward in the early days.
Wow A ...that's a full days work...don't burn yourself out..Pace yourself..It's too cold here for garden work..so a few jobs in doors....Right now...sitting and enjoying a relaxing cup of coffee...something you have to look forward to soon enough..Wait till your taste buds wake up..it's like WOW !!!!
Hey guys, Hugs to you all and hope you are all hanging in there! Be strong. Since it has been a beautiful day outside---sun shining and a bit breezy and warm, I made myself go outside and take the dog for a walk. Not sure about others but I'm finding just taking the time to enjoy the outside for a few minutes every day helps. Just to be in the sunshine, or take in some flowers or gaze at the sky for a few moments has been helping me. It has been giving me a sense of calmness and just a moment of peace where I can take a deep breath and inhale and say, "O.K. You got this. Just pull yourself together and make it through the next few minutes. You can do it. "  If you haven't already then try spending some time outdoors. Go for a short walk.  Sit out back on your patio/stoop or whatever and enjoy a cup of coffee or soda. Stargaze tonight.    
Yup, that's the way to do it AG :) Distract yourself and deep breathing to calm those anxious moments we all feel early on in our quits. You're lucky you can get outside and enjoy nice weather. Was well into the minus temps and snowy when I quit so I just huddled up inside for awhile. I know one of the things I noticed and enjoyed first when I quit was how much easier and more comfortable my breathing was. You're going about this exactly right too. Just deal with the here and now at first. Don't look too far down the road. day by day, hour by hour at first. You'll very soon be much more comfortable with this whole quitting thing :) Enjoy your start gazing 2-night. Sunsets are nice too when we get them :)
I swim everyday and go out for walks in the park for 45 minutes.  I will stop somewhere nice for a coffee.  I'm 18 days in and still having the cravings, but then I have a very happy feeling - I feel proud of myself.  NOPE
I think you will be very pleased going forward CP1973 :) Yes, the craving will still be there but not always and not really even craves - more just thoughts of smoking with the occasional crave thrown in. I found that to be true with me anyway. We're all a little different in our experiences and timing but with us all, it just gets better the further you get into your quit. You're doing GREAT Claire!
Cannot have tobacco in the home. I just flushed the rest of it down the toilet :)Cannot be around smokers, not because the smell repluses me, but because I like it & I want one...I need all the help I can get!!
Cannot have tobacco in the home. I just flushed the rest of it down the toilet :)Cannot be around smokers, not because the smell repluses me, but because I like it & I want one...I need all the help I can get!!Do what you need to so you are not tempted to smoke, especially during the early part of your quit. After your sniffer comes back to normal, you will be able to smell smoke a long way away. Also, you'll be amazed at how stinky people who smoke really are to non smokers. I think you will actually like that part. We call what you are feeling "romancing the cigarette". You remember all the really good one's you smoked. You know, first one in the morning, after a meal, after going without one in a movie or on a flight. Those ones. Not all the ones that you smoked just to feed the addiction. You know, all those ones every day about every 1/2 hour or so? Once you are addicted, you are only feeding that addiction. All those smokes do nothing to help you or fix anything in your life. It's just shortening your life.
I busted this morning & had only one cigarette. It made me feel sooo dizzy!! Confirmed just how powerful this stuff is that i am putting into body!I felt rotten for having one. I dont want this to happen again. I have not had one since...I don't want to...I want success this time.The weather is lousy today. Cold windy rainy and will be tomorrow too. So I've cozied myself up in my unit for a couple of days and pampering myself. Burning in my little vapouriser, pure lavender oil. Doing 'dry skin brushing' and drinking fresh ginger teas, lots of water...all helps to detox & get rid of nicotine. Also using my circulation booster. Lots of gum too. I can feel the pangs of withdrawal
Day 1 not smoking for me: My plan for the day - work, finish scrubbing some wallpaper off my walls, cleaning, nap if possible (probably not!), draw, and go for a walk. I love Allan Carr's book, but it seems like he does not want us to replace anything with smoking.. I will obviously have to do things... that is the part I guess I don't understand fully.
Sounds like a solid day 1 plan. If I'm interpreting AC correctly, I think he's just cautioning against replacing one addiction for another even if it's a much less harmful one, like (regular) gum or candy. I take it as him just encouraging you to get on with life and enjoy your freedom. Congrats on your quit- can't think of a better decision you could have made. KTQ!
I just wanted to say that I am really, really happy that I made the decision to quit smoking. This post would probably be better in the prerespond to your own SOS, but I'm posting it here instead. I have not been smoke free for long, but I am just excited that I made this commitment. It's one of the biggest - best - things I can do for myself. I'm also hoping I can get out some good cries the next few days too :)
Oh, I'm sure you'll be able to get those out Holly. The emotional roller coaster ride will be with you for a bit yet but the good part is that the further into your quit you get, the easier things will start to get. Keep that positive attitude because this is indeed the best thing you could possibly do for yourself. And, you will be very proud of this accomplishment too!!
I just wanted to say that I am really, really happy that I made the decision to quit smoking. This post would probably be better in the prerespond to your own SOS, but I'm posting it here instead. I have not been smoke free for long, but I am just excited that I made this commitment. It's one of the biggest - best - things I can do for myself. I'm also hoping I can get out some good cries the next few days too :)Brilliant...it is the most rewarding thing you can do ...Freedom !!!!!I still get a huge feeling of achievement about all this time...you will too...
Back to day 1. I needed to make that 100% commitment to myself, whereas before I don't think I really believed it. I have many things to keep me busy today, so I am happy about that. No more smoking for me, ever. ☺
You can do it Holly...all you need is commitment to...Never Take Another Puff...If you ever feel like that again...reach out..to someone...we can help you through it..Put it behind you and March forward...x
Holding my breath for as long as I could, then exhaling... Gives you a little rush, like smoking super fast..... And root beer barrels
Deep breathing..great stuff..get all that fresh air going in to your lungs .much better than gunk...Your doing good...
    I slept like a rock. I was tired for like a week straight when I first quit. I didn't have any tantrums etc but just constant tired. So I guess that helped.
    The opposite here...couldn't sleep at all...I was running on empty...thankfully it soon settled ...
    Reading, reading, drinking coffee, reading, sleeping, reading, drinking coffee, and deep breathing.  
15 minutes ago, Oldybutmouldy said:             Reading, reading, drinking coffee, reading, sleeping, reading, drinking coffee, and deep breathing.     Yes, that's the way to do it OBM! Read all you can in the pinned threads on the Quit Smoking Discussion Page and watch the Joel videos that cover a wide range of topics related to quitting. Education about how this addiction works and why it does nothing good for you is a key to quitting! By the way ..... welcome to our family of quitters
I’ve got 3 days.  This is what’s helped me the most:    God please help me, God please help me, God please help me, God please help me, God please help me..... ???     Also calling another recovering Nicotine addict is helping a lot.  Gummy Bears
3 hours ago, Jacob said:                I’ve got 3 days.  This is what’s helped me the most:                    God please help me, God please help me, God please help me, God please help me, God please help me.....                 ???                                     Also calling another recovering Nicotine addict is helping a lot.  Gummy Bears          Welcome to the board, Jacob, and well done on 3 days.  Please post in Introductions and tell us more about you and your quit.
4 hours ago, Jacob said:                I’ve got 3 days.  This is what’s helped me the most:                    God please help me, God please help me, God please help me, God please help me, God please help me.....                 ???                                     Also calling another recovering Nicotine addict is helping a lot.  Gummy Bears          Gummy Bears really do  help?
5 hours ago, Jacob said:                I’ve got 3 days.  This is what’s helped me the most:                    God please help me, God please help me, God please help me, God please help me, God please help me.....                 ???                                     Also calling another recovering Nicotine addict is helping a lot.  Gummy Bears              I did that towards the beginning. It really did help because then God responded, "Ha ha ha JB, we all know where YOU are headed after death" then I heard the sound of flames. Then he said, "You want to end up there sooner than you have to?"        I have not picked up a cigarette since my quit date.        EDIT - I do hear that hell is a smoking section in it's entirety so I am thinking I will definitely relapse after i die.Edited January 24, 2018 by Jetblack
10 hours ago, Jacob said:               I’ve got 3 days.  This is what’s helped me the most:                    God please help me, God please help me, God please help me, God please help me, God please help me.....                 ???                                     Also calling another recovering Nicotine addict is helping a lot.  Gummy Bears          Hi and welcome Jacob... On our main board...pinned with green squares ...is find of great info to get you up and running... Yes ..please go to the introduction thread ,and get a proper welcome ,to this fabulous place..  We have a daily NOPE thread too..great way to start the day....
    Sleeping    Twizzlers   Crisps  Exercise    Binge TV    Talking Board games Phone ga.es Social media        ...and that's just the first day. Anything but smoking.
    Exercise! Sugar-free candy, naps, carrots, dining out with family, message board, looking at horrible smoking pictures. That last one is really helpful
    So far, what's helped me is going for a walk, each time I have a craving, my craving is mostly at work, since that's where I smoked.        So I just go for a walk, and listen to some podcasts while I'm at it.   Has helped so far.
    bump 
    I'm still on the first day but so far-       hard candy  chewing gum     grape juice     ice water       As well as lots of reading here on the Qtrain. Those of you who post here may not realize it but you are literally life savers.
    I walked past a favorite hoodie I'd hung on the back of a door this spring and instantly smelled cigarette smoke and it made my mouth water a bit.       So, The hoodie went into the wash along with my work uniform and favorite shirts for a second cleaning to make sure there is no lingering siren song of tobacco to lure me back in to big tobacco's legion of cash drones.      
WOO-HOO!!  I've made it through the first 24 hours!   It may seem odd but I was very concerned about making it through this first day more than the days to come. It wasn't fun by any stretch of the imagination but it wasn't as brutal as I had feared,       Checking in here and reading all the advice and personal experiences helped immensely... Along with a lot of gum, hard candies,grape juice and deep breathing when the cravings got vicious.         I'm kind of looking forward to going to sleep tonight because that's like an 8 hour vacation from the battle and it gets me that much further along from the pull of that last cancer stick.
    Well done  T....your first day done and dusted..stay close...support is si important ....
    Great job @TobacNO  
WOOT! I can hardly believe it, I've made it 5 full days without smoking!         Having hard candies like Lifesavers, Werther's and Tootsie pops on hand hand definitely help a LOT!  Staying busy has been a big thing for me too. I washed my truck today even though it was raining lightly at the time just to have something to occupy myself. It really did help and I didn't think about smoking much at all during the process. I'm sure people driving by thought I was a raving lunatic though.        Anyway, These things and the others I posted on day 1 have helped me get this far and 5 days ago I wasn't at all sure I would make it through the first 24 hours without caving into to my addiction.
    Awesome! Don't worry about what people think. If you haven't been addicted to nicotine you don't know what it's like.   By the way... do you have to copy and paste a new ticker each time?
    Yay TobacNo, five days is great! 
1 hour ago, Kdad said:              By the way... do you have to copy and paste a new ticker each time?             Hi kdad, no you don't. You just make it once and click save, copy the code then go to your account settings, click signature and paste it into your signature box. It will update on its own. I loved watching mine that first year, it was such an inspiration and feeling of accomplishment to watch all the time, money and cigs not smoked add up
    bump    lots of tips to help you manage your first days, nicotine free.
    Nearly finished first day! Coffee, nice meals and some light yoga
    Bumping this for newbies and lurkers.   This thread is full of things that helped us through the first days of a quit.  Quitting isn't impossible, far from it.  It is an important experience that frees you from nicotine addiction.      I bump this to let ya'll know that quitting is one of the greatest things you can do for yourself and the people and animals that love you.
This is thread was perfect for me today. I have 2 days !! It has been years since I have gone even a day without smoking - so I am celebrating. I had some very stressful news yesterday and believe me I thought "oh no.- not now " And then realized If I want this quit TRULY - no amount of stress is going to make me light up. Hard to accept that but necessary. And here I am dealing with it - SMOKE FREE and let's face it, I am not trying to get out of work to have a smoke or avoid it - I am taking it head on and smoke free. This is NOT EASY in anyway - but it is possible.
@HeatherDianne you are awesome!!! Well done!!
Two days is absolutely amazing!  I hadn't gone even one full day without smoking for almost 2 decades before I quit, so I know well how every hour and day smoke free feels like (and is) a major accomplishment early on.  And good for you for not using stress as a reason to cave.  You're an all-star, HeatherD!
    High five Heather....your doing great ..what your achieving is flippin amazin .....
6 hours ago, HeatherDianne said:                no amount of stress is going to make me light up                You've overcome one of the most powerful triggers to lighting up again. A similar thing happened to me a couple of weeks ago and thankfully I came through it as you did.   You've earned this:
    Do as much physically demanding activity as your can.  It will remind you why you're doing this in the first place when you're short of breath.  Each day you will be able to do a little more.
23 minutes ago, Old Man Coffee said:                Do as much physically demanding activity as your can.  It will remind you why you're doing this in the first place when you're short of breath.  Each day you will be able to do a little more.         Great post !!!! Good to get your lungs working and taking in good deep breaths ....
"Death In The West, The Marlboro Story" "Sex, Lies and Cigarettes" "The Tobacco Conspiracy" "We Love Cigarettes" "Smoker’s Luck" "Memoirs Of A Cigarette" "Children Of Tobacco" "What’s In A Cigarette?" "Indonesian Toddler Smokes 40 Cigarettes Per Day"
LOVE reading these. Makes me stronger and stronger on my quit. Thanks MQ
very interesting nice post maryland.
Thank you for these, they are very good.
You're welcome.  :)
I´ve seen most of these and they´re really interesting. "Indonesian Toddler Smokes 40 Cigarettes Per Day" is totally creepy. Poor baby.
I´ve seen most of these and they´re really interesting. "Indonesian Toddler Smokes 40 Cigarettes Per Day" is totally creepy. Poor baby.  It's almost unbelievable but sadly it's far from it. Did you watch the documentary "The Death In The West"?  That is probably one of my favorite ones.
No I haven´t watched it, I will! 
It is awesome , I have watched it ..
Loved the Death In the West one. Unfortunately the Alam Carr one isn't working.  
Loved the Death In the West one. Unfortunately the Alam Carr one isn't working. That is definitely one of my favorites.  I'll fix the AC link.  Thanks for the heads up, Rob. 
British American Tobacco targeting African Children with cigarettes https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ldbRXAOiwWs
BAT = Drug Dealers WTF :angry:
    Death in the west - The Marlboro Story youtube link is down. The documentary can be found on dailymotion here    
Synopsis:       TOBACCO WARS is a comprehensive history of the cigarette, providing an in-depth, balanced, and often shocking look at the tobacco industry. The series' three one-hour episodes are organized chronologically, from the advent of the cigarette through its ascension to one of the most profitable consumer products the world has ever seen. Via first person accounts and insider documentation, TOBACCO WARS vividly portrays what the companies really knew about the link between smoking and disease, explains how mankind became seduced by such a dangerous product, provides a status report on Big Tobacco today, and looks towards the future of this most controversial of industries.                  
I. Hate. Cigarettes.
I. Hate. Cigarettes. +1
I have no words...just outrage and tears...
 :rolleyes: Not amazed,how sad. All we can do is stay cig free & convince others to quit to. :rolleyes:  :rolleyes: 
Should be required viewing for all in first weeks of nonsmoking.
This really strips my paint grrr, I wish I could have a five minute board meeting with the big wigs and a shovel!
I watched these  films with tears....And very angry.....and scared....After smoking 52 years.......have I dodged the bullet.....I pray I have....Total denial.....
Kinda freaks me they got away with crossing this line (the industry) and that youngsters still start smoking.... once you're hooked it's f ucking tough to break the nicotine habbit (just watched epi 1)
Get angry Evelyn.....These guys want you to stay hooked...and make them rich....Keeping your quit....so important....Hugs xx
It pisses me off how they deceive everyone!
Saw epi 2 it's outragious!
Õk going to watch epi 3 tomorrow
Õk going to watch epi 3 tomorrowWay to go, Evelyn. But have a couple of Twix, too, because those videos are gnarly and can leave a bad taste in the mouth!  :wizard:
Might do that... CPK! Last afternoon I saw 2 i was shocked. Right now it's peeying cats n dogs and windy so not going out to the store lol and besides tonight I have a seminar about relations in church :D look forward to that and don't want to waist my concentration, need to devide it LOL
Might do that... CPK! Last afternoon I saw 2 i was shocked. Right now it's peeying cats n dogs and windy so not going out to the store lol and besides tonight I have a seminar about relations in church :D look forward to that and don't want to waist my concentration, need to devide it LOLKeeping busy, that's the spirit. Have a great day, Evelyn. And remember to bless your quit and keep it safe from all harm. I'll do the same with mine. xox
Bloody *sswholes of tabacco industrie-companies!
I watched these three episodes this weekend. I thought they were really good. Enjoyed them all with the exception of the woman smoking through her neck in episode 3. That's turned my stomach - I wish I could un-see that!!
Edit.  Right now, I know it will only upset me. I looked at the first minute. I don't think I have seen them. I know I will ... If, I am getting it right, Big Tobacco is now targeting 3rd World countries, with gusto. May they all rot in their own filth. *Kudos, to the people standing up to them.
Thought the newbies would like to see these...It made me very angry...xx
Bumping this post...for anyone who hasn't seen it....grrrrrr
Newbies and lurkers...
This post still makes me mad..For the newbies..
For those who have not seen this...Talk about a eye opener... A wake up call for sure...
Shocking to watch and yet my generation kind of knew and still they continue to deny it. Crazy.
The freedom loving libertarian in me says that smoking is a personal choice; as would be the selling of same. That being said I believe that there is a special place in hell reserved for tobacco executives whose philosophy could best be summed up as... All men have the right to dig their own graves, and I have the right to sell them the shovels. There are much better ways to contribute to society then by selling addictive poison...such as being a lawyer, or politician, or marketing porn.
I dunno about the last one. Porn kinda markets itself.
Bring this forward again...it was my light bulb moment...It still makes me angry today...All they care about is your money.. Who they murder in the process doesn't matter..
Bump for Evelyn xx
Bumping this ..if you havnt watched..please take the time..it just may see smokes in a different way..It did me..
Anger was a useful motivator in my quit,I was angry at myself for choosing addiction which I turned around to Love for myself by quittingbut, my WRATH remains about big tobacco as this Evil continues around World. 
When i first  watched these videos...I was angry ..thankfully that same anger is still here today..How can the murdering ******** still be allowed..this is people's lives... Grrrrr
I want this to stay on front page...
Need this on front page ..Newbies please take the time to watch this..it was my light bulb moment ..
If you havnt watched these video,s...please take the time to sit and look..They changed my whole outlook on cigarettes...my light bulb moment !!!
I love this doc!
Synopsis:  TOBACCO WARS is a comprehensive history of the cigarette, providing an in-depth, balanced, and often shocking look at the tobacco industry. The series' three one-hour episodes are organized chronologically, from the advent of the cigarette through its ascension to one of the most profitable consumer products the world has ever seen. Via first person accounts and insider documentation, TOBACCO WARS vividly portrays what the companies really knew about the link between smoking and disease, explains how mankind became seduced by such a dangerous product, provides a status report on Big Tobacco today, and looks towards the future of this most controversial of industries. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iplzsMazQz4 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=moyJSnwEcIs https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M0Uk3WQjlbs
Newbies..this is a great post..please watch..it's a eye opener..It was my turning point...it might be yours too..
Bump for newbies 
Bump..
If you havnt watch these..please take the time..it changed my whole outlook...my light bulb  moment ...x
Bump..need this on main page..
Bump..
Another bump..for newbies...
I watched this after a tough day. Great doco's. Makes you realise how underhanded this industry is.
When I watched these..it was my light bulb moment..I finally understood why I had stayed hooked..
For newbies !!!
Please take time to watch newbies..this was my lightbulb moment !!!
If you havnt watched these..please take the time..
Bumping these for jewels ..
Bumping for newbies..please take the time go watch...it was a real eye opener for me !!!
Must see TV for all nicotine addicts.  Watch these videos and then commit to never giving those bastards another dime of your money. A bit of well-aimed righteous anger has a way of keeping you focused on your mission.
    Bump up for the newbies...this was the turning point for me..
    Need to keep this on the front page...please,if you haven't watched this....you should....it totally changed my way of thinking.....
    Bump for newbies...
    Newbies please watch..very interesting 
    I watch a lot of documentaries on drug wars, border wars and such.  Good stuff.
    For our new members...  What a eye opener this was for me..it was watching these videos...I hated anything associated with nicotine...  Please take the time to watch them..I still get angry...
    Bumping for those who havnt seen these...
    Thanks for the bump again Doreen.       It's a hard watch, but I encourage everyone to do it, there is no better time than now!     It is so important to reinforce how all consuming this addiction can be. Don't waiver in your commitment to NOPE!
    The cruelty of fellow man knows no boundaries.      Newbies, get at it. Quit smoking. 
    These Documentaries were the turning point in my quit...    I totally saw smoking in a whole different way...   Newbies..or anyone who hasn't watched them yet...they are well worth the time ....  I hope they help you too....
    Time to bump these ...  Please if you havnt watched these..take the time..it was the  turning point for me...I finally saw the light about smoking...   I never craved once after watching these... Settle down ...take the time.....    
    Need to keep these in the main page...so bump 
    Keep this on the main page 
    I am really looking forward to warching these. Watching videos on smoking really seems to help my resolve to stay quit no matter what!
1 hour ago, MwBenson said:              I am really looking forward to warching these. Watching videos on smoking really seems to help my resolve to stay quit no matter what!              I got a lot from these.  I also like re=watching all the psa about quit and anti-smoking... there are a few threads with them in here... these are good to watch if you are getting a feeling that smoking might be a nice idea, because it wont. I'll go bump some.
On 9/20/2018 at 10:03 AM, MwBenson said:                I am really looking forward to warching these. Watching videos on smoking really seems to help my resolve to stay quit no matter what!          Watching these ...changes my whole attitude to smoking ....I hate everything about it now ...
    Bump 
    Bumpety bump
I watched all of these last night and thought all 3 were really interesting.  I was glued for almost three hours.       I wanted to come away hating the tobacco industry but it didn't happen for me. I think there was so much other stuff I hated that my hatred for the tobacco industry got a bit diluted.         I hated the night riders and was appalled at what they did      I hated the Government for not putting cigarettes into a food or drug bracket so they didn't have strict monitoring, that they were happy to take 1 million a day from tobacco companies and that the president's health advisor binned Project XA which was a safer cigarette called Palladium     I hated that nobody listened to the surgeons who expressed their concern at smoking and cigarettes      I hated that Carter got rid of Kalifarno who based his campaign on the danger of cigarettes. Carter went on to say that people rely on tobacco companies to make a living       Yes the tobacco companies supply the killer cigarettes, but the Government's clearly get so much revenue from them they don't want smoking to stop any time soon.       I was shocked at the underhanded tactics some tobacco companies used but then I'm shocked about a lot of things that happened back then. It was a different era and people got away with things they would never get away with now.         Maybe my thoughts mean I don't fit in to the ideals here, or maybe even that my quit is doomed for failure. I didn't come away in a rage like others have and I don't blame the tobacco companies for me smoking.       I do think they should have these documentaries as part of the school curriculum. The woman who smoked through her neck would shock anyone.
12 minutes ago, Lilly said:             Maybe my thoughts mean I don't fit in to the ideals here, or maybe even that my quit is doomed for failure. I didn't come away in a rage like others have and I don't blame the tobacco companies for me smoking.               UM... nope, you fit in... plenty don't hate big tobacco... or like me.... I am really angry at big tobacco and they're attitudes and sneaky practices... but I most certainly don't blame them for my smoking.... I just hate that they are happy to make millions peddling death.... does that make sense??? Anyway... not why I meant to post.... wanted to say there is now ideal to fit into here... we often disagree with eat other but we are grown ups and can usually disagree and even debate without insulting or disrespecting others. It most certainly does not mean your quit is doomed to fail.... that is just ludicrous. My rage is because they know the damage their product does and they just don't care.... but absolutely do not blame them for me smoking, I did that not them. I love that you opinion is different and you post about it.
Thanks Jo Edited November 2, 2018 by LillyJust me!
    bump cos this needs to be higher....
    This was at the top of my tool box....the more I watched ..the angrier I got ....my light bulb moment .!!!
    Keep this on front page 
    Are you sitting on the fence ????....are you Lurking ...watch these videos...and then jump on the Train...
    Front page stuff 
    Watching the Tobacco Wars gave me the power to quit, (along with the patch).  I had to change my emotion towards cigarettes, and Tobacco Wars gave me the ability to hate smoking.  I still watch it frequently.  Best viewing on the internet!
    Watching these totally changed my whole outlook on smoking ...it was my light bulb moment ....  I got mad...that I had been fooled all my life ..and fell into the trap they were hoping I would ...    Every smoker should watch these Documentaries...
    Need this in front page ...for anyone who hasn't watched them ...it was a life changer for me ...
Watched all three parts, what an eye opener!!! I still find myself trying to adjust mentally as an ex-smoker. Definitely an addictive product. Documentary doesn't touch on NRT and e-cigarettes though...i suppose because it was released a long time ago (1999). Maybe it needs a sequel. This is one documentary that everyone should watch (smoker/non-smoker/ex-smoker/never-smoker doesn't matter)
1 hour ago, Ankush said:                Watched all three parts, what an eye opener!!! I still find myself trying to adjust mentally as an ex-smoker. Definitely an addictive product. Documentary doesn't touch on NRT and e-cigarettes though...i suppose because it was released a long time ago (1999). Maybe it needs a sequel. This is one documentary that everyone should watch (smoker/non-smoker/ex-smoker/never-smoker doesn't matter)            @Ankush I'm glad the documentaries helped you.         What is helping me right now is NRT. Whilst I appreciate that being nicotine free is the goal I don't agree with you that NRT is up there with cigarettes and e-cigarettes.
23 minutes ago, Lilly said:                     @Ankush I'm glad the documentaries helped you.                                      What is helping me right now is NRT. Whilst I appreciate that being nicotine free is the goal I don't agree with you that NRT is up there with cigarettes and e-cigarettes.                                                                                             23 minutes ago, Lilly said:                             @Lilly I've had a similar discussion on the forums regarding NRT before. NRT doesn't solve the problem with Nicotine addiction. It just shifts the focus from one source to another. Using NRT may have other side effects as well. The problem is that Nicotine is the addictive drug, it just doesn't matter which source it comes from. Compared to NRT, probably the only benefit, as far as I know, is that harmful tar (in the case of regular cigarettes) and chemicals released as vapor from the liquid (used in e-cigarettes), are not being inhaled. From what I've learnt, Nicotine as a stand-alone drug comes with its own health hazards. NRT may help some and may not help others. It depends from person to person. I am glad that NRT has helped you stay away from the more harmful cigarettes and e-cigarettes. I do hope that one day you will be completely Nicotine free.       P.S. - I hope you weren't offended by my mention of NRT in my previous comment. If so, I am sorry.Edited April 18 by Ankush
To be honest I wasn't offended by your original post but I would be lying if I said I wasn't by your response above.        I was feeling pretty proud of myself but some views on here regarding NRT bring me down.        For the record I don't feel that I'm trading one addiction for another. I feel I'm walking across a bridge where I left cigarettes behind me, when I get to the end of the bridge I step onto nicotine free land.       I want to celebrate and brag about my quit but those types of comments just make me feel deflated. Edited April 18 by Lilly
13 minutes ago, Lilly said:             To be honest I wasn't offended by your original post but I would be lying if I said I wasn't by your response above.                                        I was feeling pretty proud of myself but some views on here regarding NRT bring me down.                                        For the record I don't feel that I'm trading one addiction for another. I feel I'm walking across a bridge where I left cigarettes behind me, when I get to the end of the bridge I step onto nicotine free land.                                       I want to celebrate and brag about my quit but those types of comments just make me feel deflated.      @Lilly I am sorry you were offended. I was just laying it out as it is, that Nicotine is an addictive drug no matter what the source is. If NRT has helped you stay off cigarettes (which are more harmful then regular cigarettes themselves), then that's a good thing. I did say that I hope you will be Nicotine free one fine day and you said you are on your way to a Nicotine-free land, so my thinking is that we are on the same page with the fact that we both hope that you will be Nicotine free one day and I wish you the best for the same.  I know staying off cigarettes takes a lot of effort and time and considerable strength as well and I wasn't undermining your effort and time spent in staying smoke free in any way. Its an achievement to stay off cigarettes and I am happy for you.Edited April 18 by Ankush
On 4/18/2019 at 12:36 PM, Lilly said:               To be honest I wasn't offended by your original post but I would be lying if I said I wasn't by your response above.                                        I was feeling pretty proud of myself but some views on here regarding NRT bring me down.                                        For the record I don't feel that I'm trading one addiction for another. I feel I'm walking across a bridge where I left cigarettes behind me, when I get to the end of the bridge I step onto nicotine free land.                                       I want to celebrate and brag about my quit but those types of comments just make me feel deflated.  ﻿       Lilly,      I will quit with Wellbutrin XL, another mod quit using NRT so you're in pretty good company.    The goal is to get off of nicotine as quickly as possible and for some, that involves the temporary use of NRT.  Keep going!!
    Lots of people use quit aids, including NRT products to help them quit. There's no shame in that. What ever you need to do to stop smoking and works for you is fine. Providing you have a good idea of how long you should be using the quit aid then follow that plan. Purging your body of nicotine doesn't take long. It's the mental adjustment to no longer smoking that  that requires more time. 
    All roads lead to Rome ....just get yourself there ....nicotine free.....   NRT ...can be a great aid to some ...as long as it is used as it is intended....    Some folk take the quick route...some take the slower route ....getting to Rome is what we are  all aiming for ...  To enjoy our lives Nicotine Free...
23 hours ago, MarylandQuitter said:                                 Lilly,                                      I will quit with Wellbutrin XL, another mod quit using NRT so you're in pretty good company.    The goal is to get off of nicotine as quickly as possible and for some, that involves the temporary use of NRT.  Keep going!!               Thank you for this MQ.
On 4/26/2019 at 6:48 AM, reciprocity said:              It's the mental adjustment to no longer smoking that  that requires more time           I agree that the mental adjustment does take time.
Nicodemon's Lies?by John R. Polito  Nicotine Cessation Educatorhttps://whyquit.com/whyquit/A_NicodemonsLies.html     Why a question mark behind "Nicodemon's Lies"? Because there is no Nicodemon. Because there are zero monsters or demons within us. It's just another lie, our lie, as dependency ignorance tried to make sense of continued smoking.    As teenagers, what most of us thought would be a brief rebellious experiment was quickly transformed into a powerful lifelong chemical addiction as regular nicotine feedings soon became mandatory.  Research confirms that for many, it only took a couple of nicotine laden cigarettes before the shackles of slavery started to close.      What seemed innocent soon resulted in a brain wanting disorder. Without us realizing it, nicotine was activating, saturating, de-sensitizing and up-regulating dopamine pathway receptors, as our brain's priorities teaching circuitry was taken hostage. Two, five, eight nicotine fixes a day. When will enough be enough?  "I'll quit tomorrow" or "I love smoking" became our cry!  Welcome to the realities of true chemical dependency.  A world built upon lies.    Science calls our lies denial.  Denial is an unconscious defense mechanism - just below the surface - for resolving the emotional conflict and anxieties that naturally arise from living in a permanent state of self-destructive chemical bondage.  Three primary areas of denial relied upon by nicotine addicts are dependency denial, cost denial and recovery denial.  Truth is sacrificed for peace of mind, to remain hostage in an artificial world of "nicotine normal," or to justify relapse.   Most nicotine addicts we'll see today are fully insulated by a thick blanket of unconscious denial rationalizations, minimization's, fault projections, escapes, intellectualizations and delusions that hide the pain of captivity or create the illusion that the problem is somehow being solved.    The average addict musters the courage to say "no" to the wanting for that next fix about once every 2.5 years. It's then that roughly 1 in 20 will succeed in breaking free for an entire year.  These horrible recovery statistics eventually result in half of us dying by our own hand, with male smokers losing an average of 13 years of life expectancy, while females lose 14.  Our intentional self-destruction is undeniable evidence of the depths of denial. Denial insulates us from the extreme price paid with each and every puff - a little more of life itself.  It doesn't have to be.   Welcome to WhyQuit, we've been waiting on you!  Aside from this article, we've put together a vast array of quality recovery tools to aid you in becoming far smarter than your addiction is strong. They include mind-expanding motivational pages, the Net's largest collection of original quitting articles, quitting tip lists, two free quitting e-books ("Never Take Another Puff" and   "Freedom from Nicotine - The Journey Home"), more than 400 free video lessons, and highly focused group support at Turkeyville, our Facebook group.     According to the World Health Organization, the next three years will cost 15 million of our brother and sister addicts their lives. Once residing here on Easy Street with us, we hope you'll share what you've learned as failure to either self-discover or be taught the "Law of Addiction" is a horrible reason to die.    OUR LIE:  My cigarettes are my friend.THE TRUTH:  Friend or master?  What kind of "friend" would deprive us of oxygen, take away our ability to smell, burn our clothes, destroy our teeth, harden our arteries, elevate our blood pressure, daily feed us 4,000+ chemical compounds that include arsenic, ammonia, acetone, formaldehyde, butane, massive doses of carbon monoxide, hydrogen cyanide, methane, stearic acid, vinyl chloride, mercury, and lead, together with 81 known cancer causing agents (one of which is created when nicotine breaks down - NNK), before finally killing you with cancer, a stroke, a heart attack or emphysema?  Imagine seeing your executioner as a friend.  Imagine residing inside a mind that is so sick it is willing to trade 13 years of life for one chemical.     OUR LIE:  I enjoy smoking.THE TRUTH:  This may be the most deeply ingrained rationalization of all as it has a solid basis in the following flawed denial logic.  "I don't do things that I don't like to do." "I smoke lots and lots of cigarettes." "Therefore, I must really enjoy smoking," instead of the correct conclusion, "therefore, I must really be chemically addicted to smoking nicotine."  Did you enjoy being the unaddicted "you" or have you forgotten what it was like to live comfortably inside a mind that does not crave for nicotine?  If you cannot remember what it was like being "you" then what basis do you have for honest comparison?  If you truly enjoyed being addicted to nicotine then why are you here reading these words?  Is it that you liked smoking or that you liked not having to experience what occurred when you didn't smoke - withdrawal?  Studies have long ranked nicotine as a more addictive substance than either heroin or cocaine.  In fact, cocaine's generally recognized addiction rate among regular users is 15% while nicotine's addiction rate of over 70% is at least five times as great.  Imagine convincing your mind that it " likes " being addicted to the drug that addiction scientists now rank as the most addictive substance on all of planet earth.  We are nicotine addicts .  A pack a day smoker smokes 7,300 cigarettes each and every year.  How many of your last 7,300 nicotine fixes did you really enjoy ?  How many of the next 7,300 will bring tremendous joy to your life?  Isn't it time to be honest?    OUR LIE:  My spouse, close friend or family member smokes.  I'm waiting for them to quit with me.THE TRUTH:  Procrastination recovery denial makes the next puff of toxins easier to suck down.  Nicotine tells this junkie that they cannot quit until their friend or loved one quits too as they're around their smoke, smells, cigarettes, breath and ashtrays, and quitting is thus impossible.  It's pure denial and often both friends or loved ones use the other as their excuse to remain enslaved.  How long will you continue to destroy your body while waiting for someone else to quit with you?  A lifetime?  If and when they do quit with you, what will you do if they relapse?  Will "love" cause you to do the same?  One of you needs to stand tall and lead the way.  It's okay to have hope for a loved one but you must quit for "you" or it's doomed from the very start.   Why make your freedom, health or life dependent upon another person's decision.  As for being around smokers, it's unavoidable.  Should we expect planet earth's 1.2 billion nicotine addicts to disappear once we commence recovery?  Won't we still see them and smell their smoke at restaurants, as they stand around outside stores or even hospitals, or as they puff away in the car beside us?  Will all the stores pull-down their cigarette displays or move them from arm's reach just because we're trying to reclaim our mind and life?  Why live the lie that "I smoke for love!"   OUR LIE:  It reduces my stress and helps calm me down.THE TRUTH:  This stress buster rationalization is false.  The body's pH balance is delicate.  Nicotine is an alkaloid and stress an acid producing event.  The more stressful the event, the quicker the body's remaining nicotine reserves are neutralized (in the same manner as pouring a baking soda solution on an acid covered car battery terminal).  The stressed smoker is thrown into early chemical withdrawal adding additional anxiety to the underlying original stressful event.  It's why the anxiety associated with a flat tire causes smokers to reach for a cigarette while the non-smoker reaches for a jack.  The anxieties build until the doubly stressed smoker cries out "I NEED A CIGARETTE!"  Within eight seconds of the first puff, the smoker's nicotine blood serum nicotine level rises and their withdrawal anxieties subside.  The addict is left with the false impression that smoking cured the underlying stressful event when in fact the tire is still flat.   All non-smokers experience stress too.  The difference is that they don't add early nicotine withdrawal to it.  In truth, stress nicotine depletion causes smokers to experience far more anxiety than non-smokers.  In truth, it is much easier and calmer being the real "you" than it is living as a chemical slave.   OUR LIE:  My friends smoke, I'll lose them.THE TRUTH:  The nicotine smoker's mind has been conditioned to believe, through association, that smoking is central to their entire life.  Telephone calls, computer time, work, meals, driving, talking, walking, stress, joy, sorrow, and even romance, may have developed a subconscious association with smoking.  The truth is that none of these activities will be altered whatsoever by the absence of tobacco.  The truth is that quitting smoking will not deprive you of even a single friend or loved one.  The truth is that smoking is costing you new friends and possible relationships as fewer and fewer non-smokers are willing to tolerate being around the smell and the smoke.  Can you blame them?  With the exception of quitting, your current life doesn't need to change at all unless you want it to change.  It might be nice to enlarge your circle of friends to include those who don't stand around the community ashtray, but that's totally up to you.   OUR LIE:  It wakes me up and keeps me alert.THE TRUTH:  This dependency rationalization uses a basic truth (nicotine releases adrenaline and a host of other hormones) to hide the fact that nicotine deprives us of the ability to enjoy prolonged periods of deep conscious relaxation.  If always at the peak of alertness because we are addicted to and chemically dependent upon a central nervous system stimulant then when do we truly relax?  This dependency rationalization also subverts and ignores a host of natural alertness techniques ranging from a simple deep breath to brief periods of stretching or moderately exhilarating activity.  Instead of engaging life on life's terms, a powerful puff of nicotine starts a neurochemical chain-reaction that increases breathing rate, accelerates heart rate, constricts blood vessels, elevates blood pressure, causes the liver to release stored cholesterol into the blood stream, the adrenal gland to release glucocorticoids, the thyroid to release metabolism hormones, the hypothalamus to release corticotropin-releasing hormones, a decrease of progesterone levels in females and testosterone in males, digestive tract shut-down, a glucose release into the bloodstream followed by a boost in insulin to metabolize it, pupil dilation, and your blood to thicken.  Inside those highly constricted and over-pressurized blood vessels, carbon monoxide eats away at their teflon like lining (endothelium) while nicotine amazingly vascularizes fat buildups, causing arteries to harden.  More smokers die from circulatory disease each year than from lung cancer, yet denial kept almost all of them from wanting to know how or why.  What goes up must come down.  Once the hormones wear off and that drained feeling begins to arrive, a new puff of nicotine again whips every central nervous system neuron in a tired body like some overworked horse never allowed to rest.  Alert, yes, but somewhere in that endless cycle between alert and exhausted resides the "real" you.   OUR LIE:  My concentration is better.THE TRUTH:  Vast quantities of carbon monoxide do NOT improve concentration.  Although nicotine is a stimulant and does excite certain brain neurons, it also constricts all blood vessels.  Feel how cold your fingers and toes get when deprived of blood flow while smoking.  Imagine what's happening to the blood vessels in your brain.  If nicotine results in a stroke we probably won't need to worry much about concentration.  Fresh air and exercise are far healthier brain stimulants.  When quitting it's important that you understand the role that nicotine played in regulating blood sugar as its absence may cause the temporary impairment of concentration and clear thinking.  If you are experiencing any concentration problems be sure and drink plenty of fruit juice the first three days if your diet and health permit (cranberry is excellent), as it will help stabilize blood sugars.  Also don't skip meals!  Nicotine released stored fats into our blood and in a sense fed us with every puff, but not anymore.  Don't eat more food each day, just spread your normal intake out more over your entire day so that you keep fuel in your stomach and your blood sugar level.    OUR LIE:  It's something to do with my hands.THE TRUTH:  So is playing with a loaded gun and they both have the same potential for harm.  This weak addiction rationalization ignores that doodling with a pen, playing with coins, squeezing a ball or using strength grippers may be habit forming but are non-addictive.  You might get ink on yourself, rich or strong wrists but your chances of serious injury or death are almost zero.  OUR LIE:  My coffee won't be the same.THE TRUTH:  More junkie thinking!  Your coffee's flavor will remain identical.  In fact, it may even taste better once your taste buds heal after years of being numbed, coated and poisoned.  Your sense of smell may become so refined that you'll smell fresh coffee brewing more than one hundred feet away.  Although you don't need to give up your coffee or any thing else except nicotine during recovery, be aware that nicotine somehow doubles the rate ( 203%) by which caffeine is metabolized by the body. As a new ex-smoker you may only need half as much caffeine in order to obtain the same effect.  If you are a heavy caffeine user and find yourself experiencing increased anxiety during recovery, or encounter difficulty sleeping, try reducing your intake by roughly half.  OUR LIE:  There's lots of time left to quit.THE TRUTH:  This year tobacco will kill 5,000,000 humans. Roughly 1 in 4 smokers die in middle-age, each an average of 22.5 years early.  In order for 22.5 to be the average, how many hundreds of thousands had to die even younger?  Maybe you have plenty of time remaining and maybe not.  Dying in your thirties or forties is a powerful price to pay for guessing wrong.  The numbers above only reflect DEATH by tobacco.  You may be lucky enough to be among the millions of nicotine smokers each year who survive and "only" have a heart attack, a stroke, a lung removed, go onto oxygen, or who receive news of permanent lung disease as they for every breath.  Which puff, from which cigarette, in which pack, will pull the trigger that fires the gun?  The odds of a male smoker dying from lung cancer are 22 times greater than for a non-smoker.  His odds of dying from emphysema are ten times greater.  How much longer will your luck hold?   OUR LIE:  It's one of my few pleasures in life.THE TRUTH:  Does that mean that it's better than the pleasure of having a throat to deliver fresh air and great food, two lungs with which to laugh, a healthy heart to feel love, or an undamaged mind which dreams of wonderful tomorrows?  Pleasure from your addiction or pleasure in committing slow suicide at the hands of a mind that thinks it can only live with the aid of a powerful stimulant?  What do they call someone who derives pleasure from self-inflicted harm or who slowly puts themselves to death?  Pick your own label. Which nicotine fix out of the last 5,000 was the one that brought you tremendous pleasure?  Which cigarette out of the next 5,000 may be the one that sparks permanent damage or disease, or that carries death's eternal flame? If bad news arrives tomorrow will "pleasure" cross your mind?  As for Newport type "pleasure," isn't the real pleasure in satisfying our brain's wanting for more? Now imagine the pleasure of going 72 hours without nicotine, the pride of once again residing inside a nicotine-free body and mind!   OUR LIE:  Dad just died, this isn't the time!THE TRUTH:  Smoking won't bring dad back nor cure any other ill in life.  Success in quitting during a period of high stress in life insures that future high stress situations will never again serve as the mind's excuse or justification for relapse.  If you think about it, if we continue to live we will all see someone we love die. Such is the cycle of life.  Sadly, serious illness, injury, or the death of a loved one are some of the most convincing relapse justifications, the best yet sickest excuses of all to get our drug back.  I mean, who would dare question our drug use upon our mother's death? There is no better time to quit than before your next mandatory feeding.  In fact, two recent studies found that unplanned quitting attempts are twice as likely to succeed as planned ones (picture quitting day anticipation anxieties slowly eating away and destroying resolve before quitting day ever arrives). Why allow finances, work, illness, education or relationships to serve as an excuse to remain an active addict?  Once free, there is no legitimate justification for ever putting nicotine back into our body - none, zero, never!    OUR LIE:  Lots of smokers live until ripe old age.THE TRUTH:  They are much rarer than you think.  Look around.  If you do find old nicotine smokers almost all are in poor health or in advanced stages of smoking related diseases, many with oxygen.  Laboring for every breath with lungs on their last leg, is that ripe enough for us?  Nicotine smokers tend to think only in terms of dying from lung cancer.  Tobacco kills in many ways.  For example, circulatory disease caused by smoking kills more smokers each year than lung cancer.  How long would George Burns have lived to be if he hadn't smoked cigars, 115, 125?  Click here to look at the " truth ".  What's wrong with dying healthy from natural causes!   OUR LIE:  I get bored.  It helps pass the time.THE TRUTH:  Tobacco does not control any clock on earth but it does control you .  For the pack a day nicotine smoker it takes about 30 minutes before their blood serum nicotine level drops to the point where their mind sends them an "urge" of discomfort to remind you that it's time for a feeding.  It doesn't matter where they are or what they're doing.  Depending upon your daily nicotine requirements, the voice inside your head will let you know when it's time.  All you're doing when bored is being alert to what lies ahead, so that you keep topping off your nicotine tank before the next urge arrives. Boredom is supposed to be a positive form of anxiety that motivates us to accomplish a task that hopefully helps preserve life, not destroy it.     OUR LIE:  It's my choice and I choose to smoke!THE TRUTH:  It's a lie and you know it!  We lost all "choice" and the ability to simply walk away the day that nicotine feedings became mandatory.  The only choices now are to either arrest our dependency or to decide how early and often we'll feed it. As harsh as this sounds, nicotine dependency is a brain wanting disorder, a true mental illness. But the ignorant nicotine addict still believes the "choice" myth pounded into their brain by an endless stream of highly effective tobacco company marketing. All the pretty colored boxes, the displays, the sea of store ads, they make it seem like we can't wait to wake-up each day and run down to the store and try a new brand. Although a well set trap for gullible children and teens who can't wait to become adults, it also makes quitting more challenging than need be. The uneducated smoker likely associates smoking with reading the newspaper, coffee, travel, stress, other smokers, telephone calls, meals, celebrations, romance, or even as a necessary step prior to walking into a store.  The educated nicotine addict sees all nicotine fixes as either mandatory, or an early feeding, in order to avoid the onset and discomfort of chemical withdrawal. We smoked after a meal because it was once again time for a nicotine feeding. We smoked before the meal because we didn't know how long eating would last and it isn't polite to eat and smoke at the same time.  If your regular feedings are spaced thirty minutes apart, at least every thirty minutes you're going to start sensing growing want for more nicotine regardless of the activity.    OUR LIE:  I'm only hurting me.THE TRUTH:  Have you stopped for even one moment to reflect upon the financial, physical or emotional pain that your needless dying and death will bring your loved ones?  Do we care that the deadly byproducts of our addiction have the potential to harm or kill family members, whose only crime was loving us?  According to the World Health Organization secondhand smoke contributes to causing lower respiratory tract infections such as pneumonia and bronchitis, colds, coughing, wheezing, worsening of asthma, middle ear disease, cardiovascular disease, and even neuro-behavioral impairment (especially in young children).  It also found that maternal smoking or exposure to second-hand smoke during pregnancy is a major cause of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), reduced birth weight and decreased lung function.  How much does it cost to attempt to cure mouth, throat or lung cancer?  $100,000?  $200,000?  $300,000?  What's the cost of a funeral today and which loved one have you designated to pay the emotional price of making arrangements for your early departure?  What about the loss to loved ones of our guidance, our help around the house or any income we contribute? Where will they turn?    OUR LIE:  A cure for cancer is coming soon.THE TRUTH:  Between Europe and North America tobacco will kill over one million this year.  How many of them thought that a cure was on the way?  Sadly, it was false hope.  As hopeless drug addicts they waited, and waited and waited. What type of lung cancer are hoping they'll cure - squamous cell, oat cell, adenocarcinoma, or one of the less common forms of lung cancer? Even if a cure is coming for all forms and types of cancer caused by tobacco (and there are many), what will be left of your lungs by the time it arrives?  If you're gambling on "how" tobacco will kill you, don't forget to consider heart attacks, strokes, and emphysema.  Which cure are you betting on?     OUR LIE:  I smoke lights and they're not as bad.THE TRUTH:  Lights, ultra-lights and milds are often capable of delivering the same amount of tar and nicotine as regular brands, depending on how they're smoked.  It's why use of those terms are being banned by governments. They do not reduce most health risks including the risk of heart disease or the risk of cancer.  In fact, their smokers often take longer drags which means more tar and more nicotine than advertised.  Others simply smoke a greater number of lights because they feel short changed.   OUR LIE:  It's my right to blow smoke!THE TRUTH:  And it's the right of non-smokers and ex-smokers to be free from your smoke too. Social controls to protect the rights of non-smokers are now sweeping the globe.  Can a dog's life-span be cut in half by a smoking master?  Would you intentionally double the risk of heart attack or triple the risk of lung cancer for a spouse or family member?  Why kill the innocent too?  Are non-smokers who get extremely upset at having to breathe side-stream smoke simply being obnoxious or are they fighting to protect themselves and those they love from the known harms generated from burning a plant that contains 44 known cancer causing agents and releases 4,000+ chemical compounds when burned?  Do you know a child whose mother smoked while pregnant, who does not suffer from some form of impairment today?  Look closely.     OUR LIE:  Quitting causes weight gain and it's just as dangerous.THE TRUTH:  This intellectual denial pre-assumes a large weight gain and then makes an erroneous judgment regarding relative risks.  Quitting does not increase our weight, eating does.  Some assert that metabolic changes associated primarily with the heart not having to work as hard could account for a pound or two but as far as being " dangerous," you'd have to gain at least 75 additional pounds in order to equal the health risks associated with smoking one pack a day.  Keep in mind that your general health, physical abilities and lung capacity will all improve dramatically.  If patient, you will soon regain the ability to build cardiovascular endurance, and experience up to a 30% increase in overall lung function within 90 days. You'll be able to apply the same mental recovery tools needed to take control of your addiction in shedding any extra pounds, just one pound at a time.  Remember, smoking was your cue that a meal had ended.  Unless you develop a new healthy cue there may be fewer leftovers.  Also keep in mind how easy it would be for a drug addict to use intentional weight gain to a ploy to sabotage recovery. Additionally, nicotine stimulated brain dopamine pathways and so does food. Be careful not to use food as a destructive dopamine replacement crutch. If at all concerned, consider having a supply of fresh fruits and veggies cut up, handy and ready to eat during the 2-3 weeks it takes the brain to restore natural dopamine pathway sensitivities.  OUR LIE:  It's too late now to heal these lungs.THE TRUTH:  Nonsense!  While true that each and every puff destroyed more of each lung's roughly 300 million air sacs (alveoli), we were each blessed with millions more than needed to live a full and complete life. It's amazing how much damaged lungs can repair themselves unless disease or cancer has already arrived. Even with emphysema, although destroyed air sacks will never again function, quitting now will immediately halt the needless destruction of additional sacs.  You only have two options - decay or heal, including the possibility of experiencing up to a 30 percent increase in overall lung function within 90 days of quitting.  If continuing assault by the 81 cancer causing chemicals so far identified in cigarette smoke, which cigarette in which pack contains the spark that gives birth to that first cancerous cell?  OUR LIE:  I'd quit but withdrawal never ends!THE TRUTH:  Hogwash! If you remain 100% nicotine free for just 72 hours your blood will become nicotine free, your withdrawal anxieties will peak in intensity and the number of psychological craves will peak in number.  The greatest challenge will be over.  Actual physical withdrawal will be complete within 2-3 weeks as the brain re-sensitizes dopamine pathway receptors and down-regulates their numbers to levels seen in non-smokers. During that time you'll encounter and recondition (extinguish) all but remote or seasonal psychological habit crave triggers and begin to witness the gradually diminishing influence of thousands of nicotine replenishment memories, memories that belonged to an actively feeding addict who once again was in need of a fix. If you focus on taking recovery just one hour, challenge and day at a time, before you know it you'll experience your first day of total comfort, where never once do you think about wanting to smoke nicotine.  I call it a silent celebration because you probably won't even realize that it has happened until the next day.  After the first such day, they grow more and more frequent until they become your new sense of normal.  If just starting out, the rich and deep sense of comfort and calm that awaits you is beyond your enslaved mind's ability to comprehension.  Why? Because your dopamine pathways, your mind's priorities teacher, have been hijacked, making that next nicotine fix as important as eating food. Food craves, nicotine craves but with one critical difference. Without food we die. Without nicotine we thrive. It's why, although as real as your name, you cannot trust the nicotine wanting message that pounds inside your head, as it is false and is destroying you.    OUR LIE:  But the craves last for hours!THE TRUTH:  Just like the lingering thought of a nice juicy steak, lobster in butter sauce, or fresh baked hot apple pie, you can make yourself "think" about having a cigarette all day long, if that's what you really want to do.  Unlike fixating on a conscious thought about smoking, subconsciously cue triggered crave anxiety attacks almost always last for less than 3 minutes. But it's important that you look at a clock and time the crave episode as cessation time distortion (a normal and expected recovery symptom) can make minutes feel like hours.  The good news is that most of the anxiety surrounding crave episodes is self induced and thus controllable.  Key is in not trying to hide or run from your mind's junkie thinking but exposing it to honest analysis and positive thinking.  Strip away all the self-inflicted anxiety and at worst, what remains on quitting day 3 for the "average" quitter is just 18 minutes of true crave anxiety (an average of six craves, each less than three minutes in duration).     OUR LIE:  I'll quit after the next pack, next carton, next month, my next birthday or New Years.THE TRUTH:  Oh really? Can you count on both hands and all your toes how many times you've lied to yourself with such nonsense? And which pack, carton, month or birthday will give you the best chance for success?  Forget buying nicotine laden cigarettes by the pack or carton.  A case is even cheaper!  With the way that cigarette prices are shooting through the roof, you might as well calculate how many it will take to keep you in nicotine for life and buy them all now.  The only problem with that is in determining how long you have left to live.  How many more pack, carton, birthday and New Year's lies will you tell to yourself?  When will they stop?  If you continue on your present path, many Birthdays will likely be canceled by a rather early Deathday.  You are a true drug addict in every sense and the "wanting" inside your brain is as real as the greatest truth you know. What isn't true is the message, that that next fix is important. Truth is, everything now done under nicotine's influence can be done as well as or better without it.   OUR LIE:  I like to smoke when I drink and I find myself smoking even more.THE TRUTH:  The effects of drinking and stress upon our body's nicotine level are nearly the same.  You smoke more when you drink not because you "like" to but because you MUST. Like stress, alcohol is an acid producing event that causes urine to become more acidic.  The greater the acid level of urine, the quicker our kidneys remove and eliminate nicotine reserves from the bloodstream. Thus, the more you drink, the more nicotine you'll need to smoke or ingest in order to avoid sensing the onset of the anxiety of early withdrawal.  Although early alcohol use contributes to destroying a great many quit attempts, understanding the nicotine-acid relationship can be of benefit in accelerating physical nicotine withdrawal so that quitters can begin feeling relief sooner.  Acidic fruit juices, such as cranberry, may help reduce the normal 72 hours of withdrawal required to remove all nicotine from the blood.  In that roughly 50% of all relapses are associated with alcohol use, if at all possible don't drink during the first few days of recovery.  When you do decide to drink, consider drinking at home first without cigarettes around before testing your resolve around smokers.  By doing so you'll help to break the your mind's psychological links between smoking and drinking with as little risk as possible.  As millions of ex-smokers can attest, your beer or drink will taste better than ever once your taste buds are allowed an opportunity to heal.   OUR LIE:  It's too painful to quit!THE TRUTH:  Compared to what?  Three days of physical withdrawal (just 72 hours) in no way compares to the pain of months of chemotherapy, lung removal surgery and a two foot scar, a losing battle with throat cancer, years of trying to recover from a serious stroke or massive heart attack, or fighting for every breath through emphysema riddled lungs as you drag oxygen around for the balance of life.  If you're really worried about hurt then why continue your daily destruction?    OUR LIE:  If I quit, I'll just start back again.  I always do.THE TRUTH:  The truth is that you do not have to relapse.  We relapse because we rewrite the Law of Addiction, we forget why we quit, or we invent lies and stupid excuses, such as those that fill this page.  Your next quit can be your last but you need to learn how to care for your recovery, while always applying the only rule that you'll ever need to obey - to NEVER TAKE ANOTHER PUFF!  OUR LIE:  I'll cut down or quit and smoke just one now and then.THE TRUTH:  It's every addict's dream, to control the uncontrollable. You are addicted to a substance that is five times as addictive as powdered cocaine (15% vs. 75%).  You may be strong enough to cut back but so long as nicotine continues to arrive you'll remain hooked, the decay will continue, and as studies suggest, even though smoking less your health risks will remain almost unchanged. If you were a pack-a-day nicotine smoker and after quitting you decide to smoke just one cigarette, you might as well get ready to smoke the other 7,300 for the year too as full and complete relapse is virtually assured. The Law of Addiction is simple - just one puff of new nicotine and it's over. Brain scans show that up to 50% of dopamine pathway receptors become occupied by nicotine within eight seconds of the first puff. While roughly half walk away from relapse totally convinced that they've gotten away with smoking just once, they've saturated and de-sensitized dopamine pathway receptors and will soon find their brain begging for more.  You see, as permanent as alcoholism, once hooked we somehow stay hard wired for relapse for the balance of life. Although recovery allows the brain time to heal and function normally again the tracks of addiction remain. We cannot cure or kill our disease. Once free, we remain on probation for the balance of life.   OUR LIE:  I tried quitting but my family stopped supporting me or was giving me such a hard time that it caused me to throw in the towel.THE TRUTH:  It's a lie.  You gave up because you used your family as a cheap excuse to get your drug back.  You exaggerated everything they did or didn't do.  You were looking for any excuse.  You're the drug addict yet you expected them to understand the weakness and thinking of a drug addict's mind.  Maybe they didn't pat you on the back as often as you wanted, but is it really fair to expect them to appreciate the magnitude or duration of your challenge if they've never been through chemical withdrawal themselves?  They just want you to be normal.  They don't know how to react.  Do they pat you on the back and keep reminding you, or hope and pray that the worst has already passed?  Feeling unappreciated, picking fights and creating confrontation are tools of the addict's mind that are often used as weapons in order to reclaim their drug.  Some know that if they inflict tremendous stress on loved ones that they may even convince their loved one to beg them to start smoking nicotine again, or better yet, to go buy their relapse cigarettes for them.  That way, they can blame their relapse on their loved one. "They just couldn't handle my quitting." "Maybe next time!"  The lengths to which we'll go in order to feed our wanting are almost beyond belief.  Yes, some of us will even hurt those that love us most.   OUR LIE:  OK, I'm going to stop!  Now I can enjoy my smokes until then!THE TRUTH:  If you've done this more than once, isn't it just more junkie head games?  This addict wants to feel good about smoking nicotine and they've learned that by saying that they're going to quit, that they make themselves feel better even though deep down they know that it's probably just another lie!  Unless something awakens this addict, there may never be a serious quit in their future.     OUR LIE:  I've got to die of something!THE TRUTH:  True, but if you knew that tomorrow morning at 9:22 a.m. a massive smoking induced stroke would bring your life to an abrupt end, and you'd die on a cold floor with a cigarette beside you - just as tens of thousands of smokers are found each year? Would you light that last cigarette at 9:21 a.m. and pull the trigger that kills you?  Is this one of your primary use rationalizations?  Look around at all the smokers you see today.  The death certificates of half will read, "cause of death - smoking."  Yes, they had to die of something but not an average of more than 5,000 days early.  Have you met Noni, Bryan, Deb and Kim?  Would any non-addicted human spend each and every day of the remainder of their life intentionally destroying more of their body's ability to receive and transport life giving oxygen? Would they continue doing so until physical exercise was no longer an option, or until this mental illness called dependency forced others to begin caring for us, as they watch us struggle just to suck oxygen from tanks and machines?  Which family member have you prepared to be your care giver?  Try to imagine what it's like to breathe through a straw?  It's called emphysema.  Why not find a straw and give it a try. What has nicotine done for you lately?  OUR LIE:  I can't quit alone. I'll need nicotine gum, the patch, hypnosis, e-cigs, acupuncture, magic herbs or other wonder drugs!THE TRUTH:  Wrong!   The simple truth is that no magic cure has ever "made" any smoker quit smoking nicotine.  The key to immediate and lasting abstinence is education and understanding, in becoming vastly more dependency recovery savvy than our addiction is strong. Hypnosis and acupuncture teach us nothing, nor does use of nicotine replacement products that fail roughly 93% of users within 6 months of quitting, while making NRT slaves of a substantial percentage of those who actually quit smokings. What quitting product and procedure salesmen will never tell you is that each year cold turkey generates more successful long-term ex-users than all other quitting methods combined. Why? Because they want your money. Remember, should all else fail, you always have you!    OUR LIE:  It's all Nicodemon's fault, not mine!THE TRUTH:  There is no Nicodemon, no little monsters, no big monsters, no monsters at all.  None!  In fact, the title to this article, Nicodemon's Lies, is one of the biggest lies of all.  They were never Nicodemon's lies but our lies.  Nicotine is simply a chemical, a drug, an alkaloid known as C10H14N2. Its I.Q. is and always has been zero.  It does not think, plan, inflict punishment, nor will it conspire to make you relapse or die addicted to it.  The fact that it has zero intelligence has always been your greatest weapon.  Everything you see, feel, and sense during nicotine withdrawal and recovery will be grounded in chemical dependency, conditioning, reason, logic, emotion or science.  Any conspirators in any past attempts to make you relapse and destroy your recovery were always and only "you!"  Never once did you relapse due to external circumstances. It was 100% internal, once again you introduced nicotine into your bloodstream. The good news is that while each defeat was yours, so too will be the victory. Should you end nicotine's control of your brain's reward pathways the victory will belong only to you!
Quit Smoking Recovery TimetableWithin ...20 minutesYour blood pressure, pulse rate and the temperature of your hands and feet have returned to normal.   8 hoursRemaining nicotine in your bloodstream has fallen to 6.25% of normal peak daily levels, a 93.75% reduction.  12 hoursYour blood oxygen level has increased to normal. Carbon monoxide levels have dropped to normal.     24 hoursAnxieties have peaked in intensity and within two weeks should return to near pre-cessation levels.     48 hoursDamaged nerve endings have started to regrow and your sense of smell and taste are beginning to return to normal. Cessation anger and irritability will have peaked.    72 hoursYour entire body will test 100% nicotine-free. Over 90% of all nicotine metabolites (the chemicals nicotine breaks down into) have passed from your body via your urine.  Symptoms of chemical withdrawal have peaked in intensity, including restlessness. Unless use cues have been avoided, the number of cue induced crave episodes experienced during any quitting day have peaked for the "average" ex-user. Lung bronchial tubes leading to air sacs (alveoli) are beginning to relax in recovering smokers. Breathing is becoming easier and your lung's functional abilities are improving.    5 - 8 daysThe "average" ex-smoker is down to experiencing just three cue induced crave episodes per day. Although we may not be "average" and although minutes may feel like hours when normal cessation time distortion combines with the body's panic response, it is unlikely that any single episode will last longer than 3 minutes. Keep a clock handy and time the episode to maintain an honest perspective on time.    10 daysThe "average" ex-user is down to encountering less than two crave episodes per day.  10 days to 2 weeksRecovery has likely progressed to the point where your addiction is no longer doing the talking. Blood circulation in your gums and teeth are now similar to that of a non-user.  2 to 4 weeksCessation related anger, anxiety, difficulty concentrating, impatience, insomnia, restlessness and depression have ended. If still experiencing any of these symptoms get seen and evaluated by your physician.     2 weeks to 3 monthsYour heart attack risk has started to drop. Your lung function has noticeably improved. If your health permits, sample your circulation and lung improvement by walking briskly, climbing stairs or running further or faster than normal.   21 daysThe number of acetylcholine receptors, which were up-regulated in response to nicotine's presence in the frontal, parietal, temporal, occipital, basal ganglia, thalamus, brain stem and cerebellum regions of your brain have now substantially down-regulated. Receptor binding has returned to levels seen in the brains of non-smokers (2007 study).     3 weeks to 3 monthsYour circulation has substantially improved. Walking has become easier. Your chronic cough, if any, has likely disappeared. If not, get seen by a doctor, and sooner if at all concerned, as a chronic cough can be a sign of lung cancer.   4 weeksPlasma suPAR is a stable inflammatory biomarker that helps predict development of diseases ranging from diabetes to cancer in smokers. A 2016 study found that within 4 weeks of quitting smoking, with or without NRT, that suPAR levels in 48 former smokers had fallen from a baseline smoking median of 3.2 ng/ml to levels "no longer significantly different from the never smokers' values" (1.9 ng/ml)   8 weeksInsulin resistance in smokers has normalized despite average weight gain of 2.7 kg (2010 SGR, page 384).     1 to 9 monthsAny smoking related sinus congestion, fatigue or shortness of breath has decreased. Cilia have regrown in your trachea (windpipe) thereby increasing the ability to sweep dirt and mucus out of your lungs. Your body's overall energy has increased.  1 yearYour excess risk of coronary heart disease, heart attack and stroke has dropped to less than half that of a smoker.   5 yearsYour risk of a subarachnoid hemorrhage has declined to 59% of your risk while still smoking (2012 study). If a female ex-smoker, your risk of developing diabetes is now that of a non-smoker (2001 study).  5 to 15 yearsYour risk of stroke has declined to that of a non-smoker.  10 yearsYour risk of being diagnosed with lung cancer is between 30% to 50% of that for a continuing smoker (2005 study). Risk of death from lung cancer has declined by almost half if you were an average smoker (one pack per day).  Risk of cancer of the mouth, throat, esophagus and pancreas have declined. Risk of developing diabetes for both men and women is now similar to that of a never-smoker (2001 study).    13 yearsThe average smoker lucky enough to live to age 75 has 5.8 fewer teeth than a non-smoker (1998 study). But by year 13 after quitting, your risk of smoking induced tooth loss has declined to that of a never-smoker (2006 study).   15 yearsYour risk of coronary heart disease is now that of a person who has never smoked. Your risk of pancreatic cancer has declined to that of a never-smoker (2011 study - but note a 2nd pancreatic study making an identical finding at 20 years).     20 yearsIf a female, your excess risk of death from all smoking related causes, including lung disease and cancer, has now reduced to that of a never-smoker (2008 study). Risk of pancreatic cancer has also declined to that of a never-smoker (2011 study).http://whyquit.com/whyquit/A_Benefits_Time_Table.html     Nicotine Addiction 101      Tips For Gaining Freedom From Nicotine Addiction    Caring For Your Quit    Nicodemon’s Lies    My Cigarette, My Friend     Are You A Nicotine Junkie?  The Isolation Of A Widowed Smoker   The Law of Addiction    A Fate Worse Than Death     The Smoker's Vow    Gradual Withdrawal For Your Worst Enemy        Make a ticker/quit meter to track how many days you've been quit, how many cigarettes you've not smoked and how much money you've saved.  It's amazing to see how much money we've wasted on cigarettes, not to mention how many we've NOT SMOKED.  You can make them right here on our forum.http://www.quittrain.com/tickers/  Allen Carr’s Easy Way      I’m a huge advocate of Allen Carr’s book and highly recommend that everyone give it a read.  Study the book as if you’re taking an exam in college and have to pass the course.  Study it some more.  Grasp the concept that cigarettes do nothing for you and you’re not giving anything up by quitting.  I’ve been carrying Allen Carr’s book around with me like Linus toting his blanket.  Remarkably, the book and the blanket serve the same objective.   Something written in the foreward, by Damian O’Hara, really hit home.  Previously the book had been used as an apparatus; direction and information which laid the prep work for success.  This time, the well-worn paperback means a little more to me than just a revelation.  Here is the lucid sentence that brought me back home.   “In fact, like many smokers, I came to see the cigarette as my best friend, my ‘me’ time, my island of peace and tranquility in a crazy world, my ever present companion.”     Ah yes, this crazy, messed up world in which we live.  My crazy place in time still remains and smoking didn’t change it, ease it or make it more tolerable.  All it did was leave me with regret.  I can’t go back and undo what has been done but I can move forward.  The good news is that I didn’t go back to where I had left off and quitting now is simply like dropping junk-mail into the recycling bin.  I first saw the video clip below of Allen Carr speaking about his Easy Way to stop smoking.  I was intrigued enough to buy his book, “Easy Way To Stop Smoking”, and it was a game changer for me.  I never looked at smoked the same way again.  I never in my wildest dreams could have thought that quitting smoking could not only be enjoyable, but also easy.      http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0TL2Vh7goJc
The Health Benefits Of Quitting Smoking Start As Soon As You Put Out Your Last Cigarette 
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nyIJo7VCdPE
http://quittrainblog.com/ Lots of current news about big tobacco as well as all of the criminal depositions etc.  Of course all of the quit smoking resources as well.  It's part of this message board. 
I found these videos extremely helpful the first two weeks of my quit. Daily Quitting Lesson Guide      Link to YouTube Featured Playlists for all of Joel Spitzer's Stop Smoking Videos I watched these like crazy, educating myself on the nature of addiction, how nicotine works on the body, and how deep breathing can help alleviate the cravings. Read, read, read, also, al the links/articles in the Newbie package and post lots of whiny, silly posts. Seriously. Everyone does. And you'll feel better. Make sure and for real, post an "SOS" when you get one of those "I have to SMOKE" cravings. Wait. Wait. Wait. People will answer you. Just hang on to the side of your monitor with clenched hands, and wait for your help. The Blood Sugar goes haywire the first 72 hours of withdrawal from nicotine. So, drink fruit juice regularly. Cranberry is great, but any juice, really. Hummus is my friend. Hummus. A weird dip made from something healthy. I use this and lots of vegetables that, when slathered with hummus, tastes good. And, I have only gained 2 pounds in 5 weeks of my quit. So far. lol. Ice Water and tick tacs, they help. And, most of all; WALK. Post and SOS, wait for the help, then walk. Anywhere. It helps tremendously. Make sure you get back to your people on the forum when you get back from your walk. They are waiting to hear from you. They worry. lol. That's worked for me, anyway,
I love Allen Carr.  The man is a saint.
Permission granted to Quit Train to post and use these pictures from Adbusters.Org as long as they stay on this site.  :)Joe Chemo The real Marlboro Country Philip Morris in Asia Utter Kool cigaretttes, FoolTobacco executives hide behind sexy models 
I know I can not quit cold turkey, I will have to taper off. Has anyone tried using the nicotine gum or logenze  to replace ever other cigarette. For instance say you set your firstgoal of not smoking a cigarette for one hour and then increasing by 1/2 hour every 2 to 3 days and using the nicotine replacement when the urges become to strong until it is time to have your cigarette. Eventually you will reach a point where there will be several hours between smoking a cigarette. That will help with the psychological part of having something in your hands and other things. What do yoj guys think? I am open to suggestions because I have failed several times a just putting down cod turkey.
Hello lartomar2002 ,        That is exactly how i quit ,        I still use nicotine gums whenever i have a craving , with the sugar free nicotine gums alone i have avoided cigarettes for the past 2 plus months .        One gum can easily  keep you smoke free for at least 2 hours    I am sure after a week or two you can take away the nicotine gums too if you really wanted to .
4 hours ago, lartomar2002 said:             I know I can not quit cold turkey, I will have to taper off. Has anyone tried using the nicotine gum or logenze  to replace ever other cigarette. For instance say you set your firstgoal of not smoking a cigarette for one hour and then increasing by 1/2 hour every 2 to 3 days and using the nicotine replacement when the urges become to strong until it is time to have your cigarette. Eventually you will reach a point where there will be several hours between smoking a cigarette. That will help with the psychological part of having something in your hands and other things. What do yoj guys think? I am open to suggestions because I have failed several times a just putting down cod turkey.                You need to acknowledge your addiction to nicotine, understand nicotine addiction and FREE YOURSELF from nicotine addiction.    This is the way to Freedom. Please learn all you can about nicotine addiction, please !     You may find this post helpful10 Ways To Effectively Use This Forum To Help Yourself Quit Smoking       The craving is nothing a human cannot handle.  You must power through them, that is all.    As our friend, Sirius, states,  "The next time a craving plunks down on your face ask yourself, "What price you are willing to pay to own yourself?"    Commit to NOPE, Not One Puff Ever and stick to it.  This is the way to build a successful quit.     Be very wary of dependence on gum or NRTs to do the work for you.   Nicotine is a poison.   You must deal with the addiction.   Cold turkey is nothing to be afraid of, it is one of the most successful methods of quitting.       As for cutting back ?  You will be poisoning yourself if you continue to smoke while on an NRT  and cutting back has it's own particular torture you will understand when you learn about the addiction.            I recommend you binge watch Joel Spitzer's videos to learn all you can about Nicotine addiction
Hey ,       I only commented about the nicotine gums because lartomar2002 asked about it        Anyway Good luck with the quitting process .        Everyone have a method of doing it .        The entire world is not doing the cold turkey method to quit smoking .
    Welcome lartomar and congratulations on deciding to take back your life. Many people here have been successful in using NRT's to quit smoking. However, they are meant to be used as a replacement for cigarettes and only for a short time, two to three months with a plan to reduce and eventually quit those as well. Smoking while using them is very dangerous so if you are going to use NRT to quit you need to do it instead of cigarettes and not in addition to...
Hello lartomer and welcome to the forum.  I smoked for 42 years and did not think I could quit.  I tried many different methods to quit, including NRT's.  I came across this forum and, with the help of the members here, I was able to quit cold turkey.  No matter how you quit, there is a period of discomfort. The first weeks is the toughest. Once the nicotine is out of your system, then you redirect you thinking.     Why don't you hang around and educate yourself about your addiction.  Stay close to the forum and get to know us.  We are a very supportive group of people, who have been where you are and weathered our way through. We want to help you.
    I used NRT...but never while smoking...I would push the time between gums out daily but never intermingled it with smokes.
11 hours ago, lartomar2002 said:                I know I can not quit cold turkey, I will have to taper off. Has anyone tried using the nicotine gum or logenze  to replace ever other cigarette. For instance say you set your firstgoal of not smoking a cigarette for one hour and then increasing by 1/2 hour every 2 to 3 days and using the nicotine replacement when the urges become to strong until it is time to have your cigarette. Eventually you will reach a point where there will be several hours between smoking a cigarette. That will help with the psychological part of having something in your hands and other things. What do yoj guys think? I am open to suggestions because I have failed several times a just putting down cod turkey.                Welcome to the forum.       You either smoke or you don't - there is no half and half. You may not realise it but your addiction is just looking for a way to keep on smoking.      Choose a method and just go for it.         Lots of luck to you
    Whatever method you choose to quit, there will be a period of discomfort when you finally let go of the nicotine all together. NRT can be helpful in getting off the cigarette smoking habit. (It should not be used at the same time as smoking, though. Nicotine overdose is a very real danger.) Once you've gotten used to not having a cigarette in your hand, then you face getting off the addictive substance of nicotine. At some point, you will face withdrawal. There is no getting around it. It's up to you how soon you want to face it. Some people like to kick the cigarette habit first and then face the nicotine. Others like to get it all over and done with at once. Again, it's up to you how you choose to approach it.       I do recommend you learn as much as you can about nicotine addiction. That will help you formulate a plan for yourself. It will also help you to know what to expect at every stage in the process.     Quitting takes work. Cravings suck, there's no denying that. But a craving won't kill you. Cigarettes will. Remembering that makes the choice a little easier, I think. And you will find a ton of support here to help you get through the rough patches. Support has been key for me. I hope you will take advantage of all of the wisdom and encouragement you can find here.         
    I want to thank everyone for thir quick response. I be sticking around. I do have a problem with the forum though. I have it set to notify me when I get get a reply but I have not received any notification yet. 
13 hours ago, lartomar2002 said:                I know I can not quit cold turkey               I used to say the same thing.  Then I quit cold turkey.  Once I got out of my own way and forged ahead, what I said was "impossible" became reality.        A few moments of discomfort for a lifetime of freedom is a great return on investment.          13 hours ago, lartomar2002 said:                I will have to taper off.               Cold turkey or NRT?  That's your choice.  However, I strongly recommend avoiding the "taper off" method.  I speak from experience: when I tried to taper off the amount of cigarettes that I smoked, I felt the withdrawal symptoms and obsessed over thoughts of smoking.  I had the all the annoyances and irritations experienced during the early days of the quit without getting any of the benefits of actually quitting.  It's a bad deal.      Confront your nicotine addiction head-on and commit to the quit.
Ok..bit more detail now I'm out of the war zone (waiting room at hospital cas department)...        I knew I could not quit without some help. So I used NRT gum. But the day u started gum, I stopped smoking. I gave myself 3 months of NRT and that was it. I knew my addiction had 3 faces, emotional/social, psychological and physical. I knew breaking the habbit/routine would be harder for me than kicking the drug. What I know now, is that the two were linked, but facing all the social and emotional things I did with the crutch of an NRT gum was instrumental in getting me through. Do I regret not going cold turkey...yes in some ways I do BUT I do honestly believe I wouldn't still be here now without the NRT.   So once I decided to commit to my quit I had an exit strategy in place for the NRT...from the third day I pushed the envelope...first gum of the day, space between gums, spacing normal chewies in between NRT ones...then having 2 for each one NRT...        Identify why you can't quit without an NRT and then you will know if it's suitable.Edited 4 hours ago by notsmokinjo
    I’m new here but I believe in getting help and support from people who understand. I’ve recently gotten sober from alcohol and am very grateful for the new take on life. I want to be smoke free too.. addiction free. I find that cigarettes are doing to me what alcohol used to. I don’t want to continue but have never lived without a crutch. I keep trying to quit on my own but find it’s not working. So I’m reaching out for help hoping that someone with similar experience and advice will reach back. 
Welcome gabbie and congratulations on your sobriety. I was a little confused by your quit date and thought you were coming up on a year quit. Have you set a date to quit smoking yet?  I can tell you that I was a 35 year smoker and am convinced I wouldn't have succeeded without the support of others who knew what I was going through at any given moment and could encourage me and let me know it was normal. You will find that here with us. We have lots of good tips, educational topics and even videos. Then if you just want to get your mind off the misery head to our social sections and check those forums out.   Quitting smoking is doable and we're all proof, so stick close, we're glad you're here
    You’ll find a familiar mantra here- one day at a time.  You’ll also find valuable insight and support here.  Welcome!  
Thank you for the welcome . I appreciate it. My quit date this time is Dec 8, 2019. I will stick close. I willing to learn. Thanks
Welcome aboard, GabbieGirl! Good for you! As L4L stated above...it's one day at a time when it comes to addictions...although I will admit in the beginning for me it was one minute at a time...when I finally made it to about 4 months quit is when I found my first online support group and I believe it has made all the difference in keeping the quit going strong...read everything you can on this site, watch the Joel videos and participate in the forums...and remember to NOPE every day!
    Glad you have a quit date. Forgive me if I'm being too personal but did you make a quit date for stopping drinking? The reason I ask is that, for me, setting a quit date never worked. As the day got closer and closer I would either smoke more or put it off just one more day or week or month or year.    I suggest you just bite the bullet and let's get this started  We will be here for you and give you all the support you could need or want 
Hl Welcome      Ditto to what Jillar said.  It only hurts till you get to about 3 weeks quit  after that its just a matter of willpower.        If you start now your 3 weeks will be over by Xmas which time of the year is full of temptations and excuses.
    Welcome gabbie!  Congratulations on the huge accomplishment of becoming sober.  If you can do that, you can quit smoking.  Life is so much better living it free of addiction.  This is a great place for support and help.  Stay close to the forum and shout out when you need us.
    I, along with the others, encourage you to quit smoking NOW.    The stress and anxiety that comes with an approaching quit date can easily derail your best intentions.     Addiction is nothing to play with.  Clear you head, make a commitment to NOPE (Not One Puff Ever) and stand by, with all your being, your choice to quit smoking.   This is one of the best decisions you will ever make.       You know how good and in control you feel being sober ? (congratulations, btw)  Well, being free of nicotine will bring you even more inner power, self-confidence and a profound trust in yourself.        Education is an essential component of a successful quit so read EVERYTHING you can and watch all the videos.   Knowledge of nicotine addiction explains so much of what we go through and what to expect.      Here are invaluable resources from our friend, Joel Spitzer, Daily Quitting Lesson Guide        and     you may find this thread helpful, Ten Ways To Effectively Use This Forum To Stop Using Nicotine     There is all the support you may need here.  We are all committed to putting our addiction to sleep and we have some fun along the way.     Please avail yourself to what we offer and make the decision to quit asap...you need poison yourself no longer, Freedom is delicious.       NOPE-ly yours,  S    
    Welcome to Quit Train, Gabbie.  Congratulations on becoming sober as well as deciding to quit smoking.  A smoke free life is a great thing and we are all here to help support you.     Read up on nicotine addiction on this site and keep participating on the boards.  It really helps.      It is great to have you here.
    I didn’t have a quit date for alcohol. I just couldn’t go on one sec longer. I do believe it’s the same with cigarettes. Half measures have never gotten me anywhere. I have started reading info on this site and I will continue. Thank you for the input and support. It’s vital. I really appreciate it ! 
@GabbieGirl I don't have much advice to add to what's already been said, but I wanted to welcome you to the Train and to say that I know what it's like to be afraid of giving up your "crutch." I have always had a crutch, since I was a kid. For years it was food, then shopping, then cigarettes, and when I quit cigarettes it went back to food again. (I have bipolar and anxiety disorders, and living without a crutch is, for me, intensely difficult.) I think the only reason I never got addicted to alcohol is that I never liked the taste very much.       Learning to live life without masking uncomfortable feelings takes a lot of dedication...and support. Support you can find here. The dedication you find within yourself. It's there, I promise you. Sometimes it takes reaching a breaking point to uncover it. It sounds like that was the case with alcohol for you. Other times, it's wanting to avoid that breaking point that causes us to become dedicated to making change.     For example, this year I was diagnosed with an autoimmune disease that attacks the lungs. I went through a period of several weeks where I struggled to breathe. Fortunately for me, that particular symptom went into a kind of remission after a while, but it scared me straight. I will never take another puff of anything other that fresh air ever again. Because I don't want to wait until I've reached the breaking point of COPD, other lung disease, or cancer before I quit smoking. I know now what it's like to struggle for air. So I'm dedicated to living a smoke-free life.      I did, however, return to food as a crutch to get me off the cigarettes. I did what I had to do to protect my lungs. But now I'm ready to make changes in my diet, as well, because my autoimmune disease is making me miserable, and the one thing I can control is what I put into my body.       It's all about taking back control. Which isn't easy, I know.       Once I give up my addiction to food, I'm going to be left without a crutch. And that thought scares me a lot. I'm going to have to face my depression and anxiety and the trials and tribulations of life without that self-comforting mechanism. I'm working on finding healthier ways of consoling myself. And this is also where having a support system comes in really handy. I'm sticking close to the forum here and to my supports in the 3D world and asking for help when I need it. And I want you to know you can reach out to me for help anytime. I'm here to listen without judgement and to share any insights I've gained from my own experience with addiction. I know there are many others here who are willing to do the same.     Wow, I ended up rambling on longer than I intended to!      Welcome, and I hope to see more of you!
On 11/20/2019 at 10:23 PM, GabbieGirl said:             I’m new here but I believe in getting help and support from people who understand. I’ve recently gotten sober from alcohol and am very grateful for the new take on life. I want to be smoke free too.. addiction free. I find that cigarettes are doing to me what alcohol used to. I don’t want to continue but have never lived without a crutch. I keep trying to quit on my own but find it’s not working. So I’m reaching out for help hoping that someone with similar experience and advice will reach back.        Welcome to the Quit Train Gabbie.       Any transformative process you successfully accomplish will have carryover effects.  The means and methods employed in quitting drinking will be similar, if not identical, to those needed to quit smoking.  Quitting one addiction is good practice for quitting other addictions.        After I quit smoking, I reduced the amount I drank and eventually gave up alcohol altogether.  With one quit under my belt, the next quit was a breeze.  Experience is the best teacher.        You know you have the ability to quit, now it's just a matter of getting to it.  Commit and conquer.
    Welcome aboard Gabbie! How awesome that you are sober and have decided to quit smoking! Treat the forum as you would do with aa meetings and the sober compagnions, post whenever you feel like it, no shame! We have your back!     
    Hi everyone!!   I always like to drop a line to you all expressing my gratitude for being there for me!! I may not be here every day but I always think of you and i am so thankful for this site.  I try to tell current smokers who want to quit that this is the way to go!! Most do not listen LOL. I am still smoke free WOOOHOOOO and truly feel blessed because i do not crave it.       How is everyone?? Happy almost Thanksgiving! 
    Hi christa, it's good to see you and know that you're doing well and keeping that awesome quit  Hope you have a happy thanksgiving 
    Hi Christa!  You and I traveled the journey together.  I am so glad you are still smoke free.  I love being free of smoking and have no thoughts of smoking.  Happy Holidays to you also!
Nice to hear you are doing well and are enjoying smoke free life, Christa.  Life is so much better without being controlled by cigarettes.   I hope you have a great Thanksgiving.  
4 hours ago, Christa326 said:               Hi everyone!!                   I always like to drop a line to you all expressing my gratitude for being there for me!! I may not be here every day but I always think of you and i am so thankful for this site.                  I try to tell current smokers who want to quit that this is the way to go!! Most do not listen LOL. I am still smoke free WOOOHOOOO and truly feel blessed because i do not crave it.                                       How is everyone?? Happy almost Thanksgiving!                    Hello Christa !     Congratulations on building your beautiful quit !   I love hearing that you are spreading the word and groovin' in your Freedom.    Thank you so much for stopping by, it made a good day even better.  S
3 hours ago, Linda Thomas said:             Hi Christa!  You and I traveled the journey together.  I am so glad you are still smoke free.  I love being free of smoking and have no thoughts of smoking.  Happy Holidays to you also!           awesome, love this!!!
6 hours ago, Christa326 said:               I am still smoke free WOOOHOOOO and truly feel blessed because i do not crave it.               Freedom...It's a good thing.
Hi there, this is me introducing myself. First time here,  but not new to this whole quitting thing. Have been smoking on and off since I was 15 (in my mid-thirties right now). My most serious quit lasted for three whole years. I am sweating carrots  (yes, in Holland we do that when we are afraid) by the thought alone, to start this journey all over again. I am not so sure how to handle it this time. I feel like I know everything there is to know  and still don't feel confident enough. In the past I used to read a lot about addiction, fear, etc. I bought different kinds of cleansing tea, drank water until I became a water balloon, tried to meditate and then always ended up failing miserably. I have a history of depression and anxiety. I also have the experience of becoming calmer and much more relaxed at non-smoking life, but only gradually after the first year. I know it will take time. I know I want to take that time. And still I am terrified.  My quit date is next friday, 24-09-2018. I shall look around a bit, hopefully it will motivate me. I do not need willpower or pride, but faith. That much I know..
Welcome My life....,    If you want to have a successful quit your must do one thing.   Commit to never taking another puff EVER.  Not One Puff Ever.   It is that simple.  No need to harbor fear....you are seeking Freedom.      Even if you think you know all there is to know about addiction and quitting smoking....you must educate yourself MORE.     Read until your eyes bleed.  Watch the scary movies.    All will serve to empower you.      Have a look at 10 ways to effectively use this forum help you stop smoking      Why are you waiting to quit ?   If the decision is made...why not jump in ? Thinking too much isn't helpful and taking positive action is empowering.Edited August 22, 2018 by Sazerac
    Hi and welcome..    I agree with all the above post....knowledge....you fight the monster with knowledge....    You have to want to quit ...moré than you want to  smoke....    Being a part of a forum is a wonderful tool.... Positive attitude...    Why wait ???    Why put more poison in your body ....throw them in the bin and NOPE.... You can do it ...
Welcome to the forum!  You have to make up your mind that there is absolutely no circumstance that it is okay to smoke.  It is okay to cry, scream, rant, rave, punch things, be depressed, shower 5 times a day (you can't smoke in the shower) but it is NOT okay to smoke...EVER!!  Quitting can be uncomfortable, even miserable sometimes, but IT WILL NOT KILL YOU.  The alternative will.
Welcome My Life..... one day at a t time... just one day. Every morning I quit for the day... and they have started to string together nicely... I'm not worry about tomorrow or 2 years from now in relation to the quit I am just worrying about the next 24 hours. I have found focusing just on 24 hours at a time has been a big factor with this quit and much less stressful.        There are a few of us here who have anxiety and depression issues. You are so right, the anxiety is better to manage smoke free, I am already feeling the benefits of that. You know with you that really kicks in at the 12 month mark so you know that is what you have to look forward too.      So do all the reading again. Read as much as you can. Watch the videos. Watch public service anti smoking ads. You have the power within you to get rid of this addiction. Write down your list of reasons  for quitting and stick them on the fridge or somewhere you can see them when you need a boost.      I love "sweating carrots" that is a great saying... I think it would be much nicer to sweat carrots than it is to "shit bricks" which is what we do in Australia.    So keep your head high, post if you need, as often as you need and promise yourself NOPE (not one puff ever) even if its just for the day.... then make that promise again the next day.    With you quit date is it 24 August or 24 September?
    Welcome my life, congrats on taking back your life! I wish I had of quit in my mid thirties, you are very wise to do so. With a three year quit under your belt you have experience with how good quitting is and also how tough those first two or three months can be. Stay close, post NOPE and be sure to reach out to us with an SOS if you feel yourself caving to a crave. You can do it  
My life, you can do this.  I was in your shoes a few months ago -- I was more afraid of the idea of  quitting than anything else and that controlled me for 44 years.  I just decided to believe in my-self and took the leap of faith.  It wasn't the easiest thing but I just took it one day at a time and lots of cold water, and taking the daily "NOPE" pledge each and every day -- it really does work.  Take the leap, we will be here to help you the best we can.
Thanks a lot, all of you. My set date was 24-09, next friday. But I decided to follow through this evening and I emptied my package. So... tomorrow will be my first day of lots, with more air, fresher kisses,  clean clothes, white teeth. Threw away ashtrays, lighters and empty boxes. Chance is I curse myself tomorrow morning, so I wrote the list with reasons to read immediately when I wake (I used to make coffee and start my day puffing). My panic eased a bit, that's nice. I know what I am doing this for. I need to keep in touch with that. I do really want to free myself, although there will be times my nicotine wired brain will tell me otherwise.         Thanks again and I'l be back.
Good for you My Life -- these are strong and great steps to be taking to take your life back --  Remember to come here often (for research, to reach out to others or just to have some fun).  And remember drink lots of cold water and do the daily "NOPE" -- it really did work for me, as I stated before!!!!!!!Edited August 22, 2018 by Martian5
    Lots of good advice already My, so for now will just welcome you on board and wish you strength.        Hope to see you around.
    Welcome to the board, My life.  Congrats on throwing out the smokes and quitting now.       Don't be afraid to reach out to us if you need any help or support.  That is what we are here for.       
2 hours ago, My life, my recovery said:             Thanks a lot, all of you. My set date was 24-09, next friday. But I decided to follow through this evening and I emptied my package. So... tomorrow will be my first day of lots, with more air, fresher kisses,  clean clothes, white teeth. Threw away ashtrays, lighters and empty boxes. Chance is I curse myself tomorrow morning, so I wrote the list with reasons to read immediately when I wake (I used to make coffee and start my day puffing). My panic eased a bit, that's nice. I know what I am doing this for. I need to keep in touch with that. I do really want to free myself, although there will be times my nicotine wired brain will tell me otherwise.                                         Thanks again and I'l be back.               Congratulations !  You quit smoking !   Start tomorrow off with a pledge of NOPE    and drink your cafe in a different place just to switch things up.  I think you have avoided a lot of anxiety by quitting early and can use the momentum to carry you through the coming days.      You don't smoke anymore !
Welcome aboard. I want to tell you my first quit was also in my 30`s and lasted about as long as yours. Divorce got me started again or so I told myself and I was a musician in Las Vegas lounges and everyone smoked for the most part. Casino`s full of smoke back then and it was part of the lifestyle. Fast forward 30 years plus. I am 68 and this is the first quit that lasted any length of time. Almost 2 years and it`s going to last. I want you to think about making this quit stick for good and tell you if you do you have a good chance of avoiding health problems I have that are smoking related. Heart stints, poor circulation, and high blood pressure. I wish so strongly that I would have stayed strong back then and avoided what I have gone through that is smoking related and who knows what lurks around the corner. Make it stick this time. Your still young enough that the damage can be repaired. My best wishes to you.
    Well, I survived the very first morning (ofcourse). Started reading the list I wrote but I was surprised how distant it felt. I anticipated that, it has always struck me how big of a gap there can be between 'I will never do this again' and 'Ahh, give me that smoke, I'll try another day'. Drank tea instead of coffee, hugged the boyfriend and then started panicking. Like, for real. It suddenly hit me, I was not going to smoke all day, not feeling normal, not .....etc. etc.   After half an hour of adrenaline and anxiety I managed to calm myself down. Apart from being a bit dizzy I feel ok right now. :) 
    I'm glad you are feeling OK right now. It's good to avoid getting too far ahead of yourself early on, it can be overwhelming. The one day at a time, one hour at a time approach really does work, as long as you keep repeating it. It is why I still come here every day to commit.       You are doing great, stay strong! 
Just wanted to pop in with a big, fat, coffee fueled CONGRATULATIONS!!  You are taking back your life! This is your second chance! Please take it, use it, use us!!     The next few days are nothing but detox...give yourself some space and time to go thru the motions of grief, guilt, depression, but please know all of these are temporary symptoms of your quit.   Right now, you wrap that baby quit up in all those reasons on your quit list, all the love from your family, and you keep it close. Grow, baby quit, grow!       Edited August 23, 2018 by c9jane29
    Congratulations !   You might find this thread useful....it is about all our tricks surviving the first few days nicotine freeYour first days nicotine free
    I think I'll adopt this 'one hour a day' attitude. I like it. I used to see it so big, 'never again', almost uninmaginable. Today went surprisingly ok. Dizzyness, a bit fuzzy because of no cafeïne. I wasn't totally 'there'. But I still have my job,  my boss and collegues don't suddenly think I suck at it, I am able to drive without smoking. I cried only once (it kept coming for half an hour though  ). 
Congratulations on your first day quit mylife  Now you'll need to change your quit date to August 24 instead of September 24
Oh. Wow !!...   I'm late on here today..... Huge congrats to you for putting those cancer sticks down for good...   First week is tough...we call it hell week...your body is getting rid of all the nicotine...it takes 3 days...that's all to rid yourself of old nico once and for all...    Stay strong...post here as many times as you want...we are here for you..   Definitely NOPE every day....this tool is gigantic...   I'm proud of you ...
    Welcome aboard MyLife.  Congratulations on taking the plunge and freeing yourself of the smokes.        Today truly is the first day of the rest of your life.
    Welcome!!! We are all here and know how hard this is. I myself had a minor health scare that made this quit so much easier. You can do it and it ultimately comes down to mind over matter. One of the members put it to me like this - I get to be smoke free ! This is rewarding, not to be a smoker. There truly is no benefit in it. Congratulations  you got this!!’
    Also, I suffer from anxiety and I must say it has been so much better with me not smoking   benefits of being smoke free!!! Oh and I can breathe better! 
15 hours ago, jillar said:              Congratulations on your first day quit mylife  Now you'll need to change your quit date to August 24 instead of September 24
Oeps,  something went wrong up ^there^. So, day 2. Today I have the day off. Slept for almost 10 hrs,  and I still feel like going back again. Body is working hard to get rid of nicotine and cafeïne. Edgyness is on it's way. I feel a bit blown up, though I am carefull not to over-eat. And yep,  while I write this I'm like, ohh just get on with it already and don't wine. Arghh it's all coming back to me, previous quits. I need to go read the letter of reasons, NOW. It's 10:38, let's make it to 11:38.
11:38
32 minutes ago, My life, my recovery said:              11:38       Just take it one moment at a time, My life.  Yes, these are rough times early on but stay strong and fight through this.  Do whatever you need to do as long as you don't smoke.
    You are more powerful than the nicotine addiction.  Hold fast to your resolve and  as our friend, Sarge, says,Embrace The Suck.
6 hours ago, My life, my recovery said:             Oeps,  something went wrong up ^there^.                 So, day 2. Today I have the day off. Slept for almost 10 hrs,  and I still feel like going back again. Body is working hard to get rid of nicotine and cafeïne. Edgyness is on it's way. I feel a bit blown up, though I am carefull not to over-eat. And yep,  while I write this I'm like, ohh just get on with it already and don't wine. Arghh it's all coming back to me, previous quits. I need to go read the letter of reasons, NOW. It's 10:38, let's make it to 11:38.                Yay for you, My Life!!!  If you can make it through day 1, you can make through day 2.   I slept my way through as many hours of the first few days as possible.  Marathon napping sessions were only interrupted by snacking sessions.  I just wanted to put as many hours behind me as painlessly as possible.   When napping fails, distraction and exercise are your friends.  If you have a dog, walk it.  If you have a cat, pet it. If you have a tortoise, race it.  I avoided humans as much as possible since I wasn't a very good-natured quitter, but some prefer to get out and interact, particularly with other non-smokers.    Spoil yourself and do as much or as little as you please  on your days off -- read, write, exercise, sleep, and come here to post or play games and laugh, cry and whine all you want.
Let your body dictate what it needs my life. if that means sleep, sleep. Eat, then eat. It's working hard already to get that nicotine out and try to start fixing the damage done so go easy on yourself and listen to your body Edited August 24, 2018 by jillar
    Take it one minute at a time if need be.... Do anything...just don't smoke... Even if your arse is on fire ..?
    Well, the monster has been unleashed.   Is it ok to continue writing here or should I start a diary or a blog?      Ughhhh this ... this bloody thing comes in waves: panic, sadness, edgyness, the idea of missing out, tired and restless at the same time. Gauloises, you looked so sexy and grown-up when I first met you, long loooong time ago. But now I see, you made me an ordinary addict. Bleghhh
    You write wherever you want to my life. I found it totally helped me in the early days AND you'll have something to look back on when you get farther along. Hang in there, it will get better. I promise 
    My life, you're doing the right thing by posting here often.  And setting small targets.        You're doing it.  Promise to post an SOS before lighting up - it has saved many a quit and it really works.  We will stand by you as you overcome the crave.
    Post and write wherever you want and whenever you want.  Venting about what you are going through is a great way to release a lot of the early anxiety you are feeling.  Just keep fighting through it.  Things do get better.
4 hours ago, My life, my recovery said:             Well, the monster has been unleashed.           Is it ok to continue writing here or should I start a diary or a blog?                                      Ughhhh this ... this bloody thing comes in waves: panic, sadness, edgyness, the idea of missing out, tired and restless at the same time. Gauloises, you looked so sexy and grown-up when I first met you, long loooong time ago. But now I see, you made me an ordinary addict. Bleghhh                You write wherever and as often as possible, ML !   Blogs are great, threads are great ....your story is valuable not only to you but, to all the people reading.   Your lessons are our lessons as our's are yours.        Facing we are addicts and quelling any romance for our smoky past is important work.    Reward yourself.
    I wouldn't worry about eating too much if it "Gets You Through The Night" unless it is seriously health related. Your on the right track and you`ve been here before. Stay strong and best wishes.
Day 3. I realised I will have to put some effort in debunking my addict thoughts. Yesterday evening I thought: I will become the most boring person on the planet. This thought caused  a rollercoaster of feelings. Last time I quit (for about half a year) it was depression (and fear of becoming even more depressed) that led me back to smoking. I think these unadressed addict thoughts played a huge role in that.    Ok, so I think I will become the most boring person on the planet. Mantra: 'I will become more at peace with myself'.   (And, note to self, what is exciting about lighting fire to something in your mouth? ). I convinced myself it was cool to smoke, when I was 13/14 years old. Plain simple as that. Right now, I do not need to identify with this disruptive thought. I can let it pass.
    After today......no nicotine in your body...always think of the positives....   Quitting is full of positives...    I'm sure your far from boring ...   Keep going ....
2 hours ago, My life, my recovery said:             Day 3. I realised I will have to put some effort in debunking my addict thoughts. Yesterday evening I thought: I will become the most boring person on the planet. This thought caused  a rollercoaster of feelings. Last time I quit (for about half a year) it was depression (and fear of becoming even more depressed) that led me back to smoking. I think these unadressed addict thoughts played a huge role in that.                    Ok, so I think I will become the most boring person on the planet. Mantra: 'I will become more at peace with myself'.                   (And, note to self, what is exciting about lighting fire to something in your mouth? ). I convinced myself it was cool to smoke, when I was 13/14 years old. Plain simple as that. Right now, I do not need to identify with this disruptive thought. I can let it pass.                Of course you must put in effort to debunk the addict ! This is part of the journey of self discovery that quitting smoking enables !   Once you acknowledge the big lie that addiction encompasses, it is nearly impossible to lie to yourself about anything. Quitting smoking reveals many inner truths.     One lie your addict is using is, you will become more depressed if you quit smoking.  This is bullshit. Smoking only feeds on our depression it doesn't cause depression.  Quitting smoking is life affirming and leads to many powerful inner changes, all good !  Lies lies lies.  Lies that you are boring.  Lies that smoking is cool.  Our addict has a million of them.       Have a look at this,Romancing The Cigarette andRed Flags        Congratulations on your Third Day ! PLEASE reward yourself !    A whole lot of nicotine has left your body. YOU don't smoke anymore !
Thanks @Sazerac. You are absolutely right. I clearly remember how thrilled I was with myself and with what I archieved after one year. More aware, less dissociation, my body felt mine again. Thats where I want to be again. But to be there I will have to acknoledge these lies and not just fare on willpower. Pfiew. Such a long way to go. Or maybe that's also not true? And am I closer already than I would think?        As for now, I did grocery shopping. A huge trigger because I don't like shopping AT ALL. Made it through though. 3rd day. Yay!  I'll reward myself with a good piece of chocolate. I am thankfull for this forum. I couldnt possibly bother friends or boyfriend with all these contemplations...
@My life, my recovery   Hi !    If you have not listened/read to Allen Carr Easy Way to Stop Smoking, I absolutely recommand it.    I am very proud of you staying free of suffocation. One thing that helped me some time ago was thinking about craving and withdrawal as a recovery, always said to myself that it is normal to feel like that, this is my body recovering, nothing to worry, just embrace this journey thinking that somehow "no pain no gain". I am sure that you have done hard things before, and this is far from being that hard.  I like to keep in mind what Sadhguru said once about the smoking, this helped me some time ago, so maybe it will help you too "Smoking is not good or bad. You can't say it is, but it's foolish, always remember that this machine we have was never designed to inhale smoke , so you are doing something against your nature, which is foolish". Wish you good luck and I will be on the some road with you tommorow, just few steps behind. All smokers want to quit, remember that, you can succed. One day at a time , or maybe even better 3h at a time, and it is unbelivable easy, never think about not smoking a cigar ever again, even if you want that, don't look at the tip of the mountain, it will seem impossible to get there, just look at the next step you have to make , next minute, hour.
37 minutes ago, My life, my recovery said:              Thanks @Sazerac. You are absolutely right. I clearly remember how thrilled I was with myself and with what I archieved after one year. More aware, less dissociation, my body felt mine again. Thats where I want to be again. But to be there I will have to acknoledge these lies and not just fare on willpower. Pfiew. Such a long way to go. Or maybe that's also not true? And am I closer already than I would think?                                As for now, I did grocery shopping. A huge trigger because I don't like shopping AT ALL. Made it through though. 3rd day. Yay!  I'll reward myself with a good piece of chocolate. I am thankfull for this forum. I couldnt possibly bother friends or boyfriend with all these contemplations...           You already identify the lies, Mlmr !  The lies will not serve you anymore. Now it is time to power through temporary anxieties and nurture yourself.   Quitting smoking is a big friggin' deal but, ultimately do-able.    Celebrate each and every crave you wrench from the addict.  Your thoughts will soon be COMPLETELY your own and have NOTHING to do with nicotine addiction.      You are winning.    Chocolate is delicious. :-)
I owe half my quit to good chocolate! It helps release dopamine and reinforces the good behavior of not smoking.    It sounds like you're making your second chance count MLMR!     I read (Dr.Phil, I think) that any kind of severe abuse (mental, physical, sexual, drug) can actually retard growth at the age when the abuse began...so, of you started smoking around 13/14, that's the last time you really processed emotions. There WILL be a grace period for getting ahold of this and understanding how to have emotions even.  All this to say: be mad, be sad, be happy (B12 shots help), be the new non-smoking you with NO shame!!
    Hi mylife, you may find your self esteem start to skyrocket the farther you get into your quit like I did. And if anything it's the smokers sitting in their huddle smoking that are boring because they're missing out on what's going on inside. You never have to be that person again  Enjoy your chocolate, I was hooked on soft peppermint puffs lol
    After reading @Sazerac's suggestions (Romancing the cigarettes and Red flags) I thought about my warning signs. I think writing them down will help me see them for what they really are: whoppers.     Yesterday I encountered one of my most crucial ones: "I'll become a boring person if I never smoke again". Obviously, NOT TRUE. How is addictive, repetative smoking making me an exciting person? Day after day after day, just because I háve to? What is exciting though, is breaking through that circle. That's what I'm doing right now. Besides that, if it were to be true... excuse me, but I could really use some boredom now and than       Another one, frightingly strong sometimes: "oke, you showed the world you are able to quit. Woohoo. Now stop that nonsense, don't be so damn proud of yourself and get the smokes already. You know it's what you want". Personally, I find this the worst. I can't wrap my head around it. Somehow this thought can get to me, the way a good (but evil...)  friend talks to you and you appreciate and believe their words. I know it's not true. And still, it must have something to do with my own insecurity in general. Is it as simple as believing you can...? And by that, chasing away this thought?         I had a long talk with my boyfriend the other night, about meditation, going through fears and all, self compassion. We often had discussions about quitting and me being so afraid. He's been with me before when I took the plunge, back then he just couldn't understand why it took me so long to feel normal again and to ease the depression. My willpower is crazy though.. and it just dawned on me that that's what might get in my way, strangely enough. Im so afraid to see myself as... ok, to be alone with all this fuss in my head, to welcome my emotions so to speak. That's why I never gave meditation  good chance, it seems just to scary. And though I have come a long way the past years, quitting smoking seems to ask for an even gentler approach... hmmmmm.         
@c9jane29 especially the real dark chocolate, that's my favorite. And yes, I shall learn new ways to deal with emotions. Hopefully with more grace than the embarassing fight with my significant other, yesterday night...  @jillar you are so right!
4 hours ago, blur said:                                                             @blur   Thanks for your reply. I read Carr when I was younger, but somehow it didnt click back then. I've read a few books that did though, in Dutch 'de opluchting' , but I tried to re-read them but that didnt work! Like I suddenly became imune or something. Weird!   Very nice you will go again, tomorrow.! I wish you faith and strength.  And maybe remind you of your own quote: "Smoking is not good or bad. You can't say it is, but it's foolish, always remember that this machine we have was never designed to inhale smoke , so you are doing something against your nature, which is foolish".
    @blur, listening to Carr's audiobook right now . Makes sense, ha! 
3 hours ago, My life, my recovery said:             @blur, listening to Carr's audiobook right now . Makes sense, ha!           I just finished it and now I am free as you are, my friend, let's go on this journey toghether.
8 hours ago, My life, my recovery said:             Yesterday I encountered one of my most crucial ones: "I'll become a boring person if I never smoke again". Obviously, NOT TRUE. How is addictive, repetative smoking making me an exciting person? Day after day after day, just because I háve to? What is exciting though, is breaking through that circle. That's what I'm doing right now. Besides that, if it were to be true... excuse me, but I could really use some boredom now and than       Those thoughts of becoming a "boring person" when we quit are in large part attributable to the lies we tell ourselves as addicts.  Years and years of social conditioning also play a major factor in those thoughts.  From Hollywood to Madison Avenue, much time and energy have been spent selling the false premise that all the beautiful people smoke, drink, and do drugs.  This is not the time or place for my conspiracy theories, so I will simply say you have to tune out the outside voices that would have you believing that a healthy lifestyle is boring and dull.  The exact opposite is true.      Addiction does not equal freedom.  Dependency does not equal independence.  Killing yourself does not equal living.     Know your reasons.  Stay true to yourself.          Carry on MLMR.  To freedom, health, and independence.
✔day 4 ✔    Today I told myself:    * going out for dinner is fun and I am blessed that  I am able to.  * taking a long walk without smoking is just as good, even better. It's just... a walk. * doing dishes does not have to be rewarded with a smoke, the clean kitchen is the reward in itself.    * I had my first coffee in 3,5 days and it was delicious. 'I can't drink coffee without a cigaret' turned out to be a big fat lie! Edited August 26, 2018 by My life, my recovery
    @work, but I thought, I have to jump in for a second and make room for my thoughts. I think a lot about smoking today. And my schedule is too busy take my time for these thoughts. But if I don't do it at all, I'll be dead tired tonight. So here goes...    * It's a lie that I can't do my job properly without smoking.  I am good at what I do.      * It's a lie that I need smoking to ease my mind. I know number of ways to relax when I need to: tea, breathing, going outside and getting REAL fresh air/oxygen. Chewing on a delicious variety of tomatoes, cucumber, carrots, eggs, an apple, banana... oh joy!      * It's a lie that I loose my focus after a while, when I don't smoke. I'm still adjusting so maybe I am distracted easily this week, but apart from that my concentration is just fine. Smoking is an addiction. Agitation is something that's caused by smoking, not something that was there already and one can cure by smoking.
    Spot on My life, you are doing this just right. Good job on your quit to date!
    Your lies are all of our lies, they are the lies of addiction.  Good on you for exposing them....you can't be fooled anymore, you know too much !   Take extra good care of yourself and lavish yourself with rewards, this jump starts your brain's pleasure centers to run for YOU and not nicotine.
    Mylife - your entries here are inspiring me!! Thank you!! You are doing amazing
@Sslip thank you @Sazerac it's comforting to know that we all sort of deal with the same lies. It's easier for me to make it less personal and less of an 'it's my own fault'thing. While still taking responsability  for MY quit. Thanks for your support.@Christa326 good to know . I have not much looked into other blogs/stories, still have to find my way around here. But I believe I read that you are somewhere in your second week or so?
    Once you see smoking for what it is...a addiction....and understand the addiction... Quitting becomes alot easier....
19 minutes ago, My life, my recovery said:  @Sslip thank you @Sazerac it's comforting to know that we all sort of deal with the same lies. It's easier for me to make it less personal and less of an 'it's my own fault'thing. While still taking responsability  for MY quit. Thanks for your support.        @Christa326 good to know . I have not much looked into other blogs/stories, still have to find my way around here. But I believe I read that you are somewhere in your second week or so?                               Yes 15 days!!
I am nearing my 5-days mark. I am happy about that because it means that before  I know it, I will have the first week under my belt.       The past five days my fear of depression has almost vanished. That's extraordinary and a bit uhm, unusual as well. Where other people are sure they will gain at least 60 pound (and heck, that fear feels realistic), my quit fear has always been the sadness and the darkness. I won't dwell on it for too long, but trust me. For me, that fear is about life and death. I carry a heavy heart... and worked my ass off all these years to make it lighter. And now, I suddenly am not so sure anymore about quitting and depression. I question the relation between the two. That's ... HUGE!!!. Imagine... what if I could do this without hitting rock bottom again? How awesome would that be, to see this addiction for what it is? Ahhhh. While I write this, I hear this little voice, it says: 'Hah! Being cocky and everything, well girl, just wait for it! I'll get you some!'. I think I will continue listening to Allen Carr's audiobook and give this voice a taste of his own medicine.        Going to bed early. Last night was crap. I have never been able to sleep well for the first months of quitting and I do know that has a great impact on my moods. I tried everything from late night walks to baths, super gross lavender sleep tea and listening to delta waves. I would like to hear your golden tip, if you have one!
The best sleep I get is when I go for a late night swim. My local pool is open until 10:30 pm most of the week and the swim tires me and quietens the mind.
On 8/26/2018 at 2:36 AM, Boo said:              Addiction does not equal freedom.  Dependency does not equal independence.  Killing yourself does not equal living.                                     Know your reasons.  Stay true to yourself.                      <3 @these. Making them part of my mantra's. And would like to hear more about your theories () but you are right, here and now it's probably not the right place.
3 hours ago, My life, my recovery said:             Going to bed early. Last night was crap. I have never been able to sleep well for the first months of quitting and I do know that has a great impact on my moods. I tried everything from late night walks to baths, super gross lavender sleep tea and listening to delta waves. I would like to hear your golden tip, if you have one!                I never had much trouble sleeping, even in the early days of my quit.  So I may not be the best equipped to give advice.        I am a big fan of deep breathing exercises though.  I usually do a 4-4-8 pattern: inhale through the nose for a count of four seconds, hold the breath for four seconds, and exhale slowly through the mouth for eight seconds.  Calms the mind and body.
    I took a otc night time bayer a couple times a week and that worked to get my sleep pattern back on track. You're doing great mylife  
    You are doing great, Mylife.        Thanks for keeping us updated on your progress.  Your posts are very inspiring.     Keep up the awesome work!
    Rutavala and Underwood essential oils help me sleep, also lavender...
    Or for Pete's sake CEDARWOOD not Underwood whatever that is!
I'll be needing those tips, tonight was awfull. Slept  few hours, then woke up, doze off, only to wake 20' later to stare at the ceiling for the rest of the night. I am worried, I hoped that during this quit my sleeping pattern would not be so badly influenced. Sleep is my main trigger in moodswings...         Head up high, off to work. Day 6.
    My life, I'm afraid I'm just about to give you the stupidest bit of advice. Try to relax about the sleep. I know it is a real pain while struggling with the early quit insomnia and all people adjust at different rates, but for me it lasted no longer than two weeks.       The point? Well, really just to say it is temporary and passes. A couple of weeks after quitting I started sleeping better than I had done in years. No jumping out of bed at the first opportunity to get that desperate first fix of the morning.         You will get there soon, in the meantime there is no harm in temporarily using ANOTC sleep aid. 
I know you are right @Sslip. And at the same time it's the hardest thing to do, not worry about the lack of sleep when that same lack of sleep is such an issue.. I always try to say to myself, when I lay awake for 3 hours, my brain thinks I've slept 1,5. Lying down is resting as well. And I think what they say is true, during those insomnia nights you always sleep more then you are aware off, even when it's these little in-between-naps. I'll try to keep in mind that it might just be a few weeks...
OK before I started on my new medication (which has been making me sleep heaps) I was a chronic insomniac.... so much so that I didn't really notice a change with quitting.... I will take sleeping tablets when I need them because I could go for days on 1-2 hours of sleep and become completely irrational. I know a few people have used the night time cold and flu tablets to get through the insomnia stage. You know your the best one to make decisions about what you can and can't take but if a lack of sleep is going to push your resolve there are options.... the insomnia is an early stage thing from what I have read with others, as I said it was no different for me before quitting and after, so you can just push through this or you can try camomile tea or malted honey milk or see your doctor about a sleep aid.
    I breathe like @Boo and slow it down, way down.  I also tuck the palm of my thumb into my solar plexus. The rest will get you by, it is the anxiety about sleeplessness that has to go. Some people like guided meditation tapes.   Are your screens turned off ?  It is recommended that you stop watching telly or your computer for at least an hour before bedtime. OTC sleep aids work for me, and the Chamomile or Honey toddies from @notsmokinjo    When sleep is completely evasive, I get up and do something (NO computer or any screens). I am usually tired enough to sleep in an hour or so.  s
I am thankfull for all of your tips, I really do appreciate you all thinking with me and with eachother. I decided to call my doctor tomorrow morning and discuss this with her. In general, I avoid medication if I can, but... now is not a general occasion. And my sleep is worth a lot to me! I think I want to give it one week and if it's not any better by then I'll contact her again and then she can subscribe me something without an appointment, because she knows what's going on. @notsmokinjoyou said somehing about flu and cold tablets....? What's that? And @Sazerac you are right about the screens. Tonight I am going to walk for one hour, then take a shower and go to bed. There will be no screens involved        Today I had some new triggers to digest. Holiday season is over, so there was a lot of traffic. Queing, no cigaret... ugh. Instead, I started thinking about how I can remove the stench from my house on wheels. I might make a project out of that, next weekend. Many people asked me today how I am doing and although I think it's sweet, it was a bit too much. While I told them I'm doing surprisingly well, I'm like.... ahhh I want to run away for a cigaretbreak. So... went to the restroom and thought about what was really going on: I'm just not so good at being the center of attention. Besides that, I know the way it works... people will forget about it in some time, but for me the journey continues. And somehow that thought made me feel alone and thus craving for a smoke. This addiction has interesting ways of work...       Lies debunked today:    * I can't be in traffic jam without smoking. Well.... yes, ofcourse I can. Unfortunately, traffic jam is traffic jam and I am in it, smoke or no smoke  * I will never be able to drink coffee at work again, without wanting to smoke. Uh... yes I can drink coffee and just continue with what I am doing. But... for the first time I realised how disgusting this machine coffee actually is. And since I have these sleep issues, I will rule out coffee anyway, for some time. Kinda strange, since I came from at least 6 mugs a day. I guess body and mind are adjusting and maybe it's my job to give in to that for now.      -edit- omg!!! Tomorrow evening it's a week already!!!Edited August 28, 2018 by My life, my recovery
    Those milestones are important @My life, my recovery. Make sure that as you reach them, you give yourself a little (or even big) treat. You will have earned it. 
    Late to the party, but congrats on the best choice ever.....keep on keeping on  Lisa
    Try Qi Gong !!!!    Find a  beginner class on You Tube....it's been a life saver for me...so relaxing and calms the mind....it does deep breathing too...   I do it every morning ...it's a great way to start the day....trust me !!!
Ok, last post before I turn off everything that blinds me with evil sleepless blue light. I just had a good walk with my best friend. There was crying, talking, sentiment, mud and a beautiful sky. Man, what a proces. Quitting smoking.  I have some things planned for the weekend. Finding out about Qi Gong       (@Doreensfree), arranging some natural air freshener for in my car and make a reservation schedule for the next half year, with people who own bathtubs         And now off to an hour screenless sleep-preparation. Which I don't worry about. AT ALL. Edited August 28, 2018 by My life, my recovery
    May you have the sweetest of dreams, life.  Talks with best friend are a balm, we are lucky with our friends.   This last full moon was a doozie...Mercury still pulsating in the sky here. I saw a bat last night :-)   I have a bathtub in my courtyard,it is a great place to see the sky.Have a good rest.Ditching the screens will take a few days to adjust but, it will really make your REM's better.Take your  melatonin (which I just discovered may be useful for the side effects of quitting smoking )and lay down with a peaceful smile on your face. S            
        Honest...? I feel like crap. Bad night again. Apparantly body was run over by truck tonight. Bleghhhh           
    I lost my sleep too...but like you I was told to work through it,all is temporary... And it was.... Keep fighting...hope Qi Gong helps too...before that..I had a punching pillow....lol...one extreme to the other.... Emotions are all over the place for a little while..but the reward is so worth it...
    Trying to stay positive, but today that's a bit too hard. Main goal is to survive this day in one piece I guess. One non-smoking piece, that is. I feel sad, unstable, foggy. Bleghh. I look forward to tonight, I'll be having dinner with a friend. Pancakes, let the comfortfood come my way please. I don't want no cucumber carrots and tomatoes anymore.   
    Enjoy that comfort food. Resolve to yourself to go through these crappy days just once. It won't be long until you get out the other side. That's a promise. 
You have 6 days to celebrate, M' Life ! The day will pass, your craves will pass.   You know how to power through, embrace the suck.    Look forward to your free life.
Hi all, meet Chamele,  my weird looking, big-eyed, somewhat scared baby quit. It's exactly one week old. I nurture it , raise it and now and then I spoil it. I'm afraid he's a bit unworldly and foggy sometimes. He might even scream for no apparant reason. There's no need to hide from him, he's not dangerous. He seems alert, afraid even. He has this cool habit of changing colours, lately he chooses different clothing every few minutes. It suits him for now. They say he will ease out when he grows up. I love him anyway.             Edited August 29, 2018 by My life, my recovery
    ^^LOVE IT!^^  
    Fabulous....you should call him / her...NOPE.....your quit needs just as much nurturing...x
    One week already! Congratulations MLMR!! Blow up some balloons and get this party started!!     Make sure to reward yourself and get that proud, fire in your belly feeling that You! Are! Doing! It!   (You should probably keep him off the pink sparkle glitter balloons...it'll confuse the heck outta the little guy)   
Help! It's 2:15 am and I have been awake since 11 already.  I know I shouldnt worry but it worries me so much anyway. I try to do deep breathing but when I start, I feel panic coming up so I go back to shallow breathing again immediately, I can't push through. Since four days I have this cramp in my neck/back, I think I am too tense about not sleeping, when I go to bed. It's the wellknown circle. I just can't have this, so afraid that the sleeplessness will trigger old things. I really want to believe that it's temporarily. Im still pretty sane, but when this continues I'm not sure how to handle. Smoking is not an option,  no way. I'm not worried about that. When I come home from work I don't have enough energy yet to do things like Qi Gong or making my bedroom a sleeping walhalla or even buying things like milk,  sleeping tea etc. I figure that I need to do these things next weekend.   Sorry but...for now it's just like this: Edited August 29, 2018 by My life, my recovery
    The insomnia thing sucks my life but it's only temporary so try to keep that in mind. Have you tried putting on a boring tv show? That helps sometimes if you dont want to try an OTC sleep aid.    I'm glad that smoking isn't a concern for you, progress is awesome isn't it 
Yes I tell that myself the whole time. It wont last forever, it's only temporary. It scares me that it's only been like this for four days and already has such an impact. It might take a while and somehow I need to accept that. Edited August 29, 2018 by My life, my recovery
Quitting itself is not so much of a problem. Have only had 2 or 3 really bad cravings since I started. I like reading about addiction, it helps me. I like debunking the addict thoughts and Im enjoying freshness and I am proud I am doing this again.  Really. Oh and allen Carr's audio Book is great. It's not your average romance or adventure but ok..      But this stupid sleepthing messes me up !!!!!!!!!       Temporary. Temporary. Temporary.
    You're doing great my life, be super proud of yourself. Soon you'll be sleeping like you've never slept before  Have you tried napping during the day to help make up some of your sleep? 
    I think when you are tired enough you will sleep.   Get cat naps whenever you can.  You have a great quit going, protect it.
Hang in there, just like you are! Awesome! I am on day 5....the opposite sleep problem....all I want to do is sleep !
    Sorry M ..having no sleep is tiresome...I was the same....spent many hours in the night here....stay strong...it will pass...but everyone is different ,so carnt tell you when this will happen...just be gentle with yourself...maybe nice warm baths with candles....soft music...hang in there...
15 hours ago, Parsley said:             Hang in there, just like you are! Awesome! I am on day 5....the opposite sleep problem....all I want to do is sleep !           Gosh, I wish I were you... @Doreensfree thanks. And @Parsley @Sazerac and @jillar ofcourse. I   I am actually doing quit ok . Got my positivity back, it always amazes me how much simpeler problems seem when it's daytime. It was like I had a huge hangover today, well I know that feeling and I can handle that, ha! Besides that, day 8 (!) already. How cool is that. Don't have much to say. But I am reluctant to leave the forum. Edited August 30, 2018 by My life, my recovery
Besides﻿﻿﻿ that, day 8 (!) a﻿lrea﻿dy. How ﻿c﻿ool is that. ﻿Don't have mu﻿ch to say. But I feel reluctant to leave the forum. !!     Just hang around here..read...play games...we all have quiet moments.....8 days...Yahoo....
18 minutes ago, My life, my recovery said:              Gosh, I wish I were you... @Doreensfree thanks. And @Parsley @Sazerac and @jillar ofcourse.                 I                   I am actually doing quit ok . Got my positivity back, it always amazes me how much simpeler problems seem when it's daytime. It was like I had a huge hangover today, well I know that feeling and I can handle that, ha! Besides that, day 8 (!) already. How cool is that. Don't have much to say. But I feel reluctant to leave the forum.       That first week in the bag is massive My Life. Make sure you do treat yourself with some of that money you've saved. I know you have found it tough, at least in parts, so I'm very proud of you right now, great job.
These are some of the words/lines I wrote down last week (maybe translation is a bit off sometimes):        Sweet kisses. Breathing from my core. Smoking equals an insecure, empty feeling. Oxygen = O2. Freedom, pride, easily running the stairs when in a rush. Shiny hair. The cigarette gives nothing, but takes everything. Clean car. Pink lungs. 5 minutes rule rules!!! See through the brainwashing. Lillies.        ------------ silence is ok --------------       To be with what I feel. Just. Be. With. It. Adjusting.      Fresh laundry, peated whisky, waking up with a clean throat. This journey is a different one. It's now. It's ok to not know what needs to be done. Knowing isn't everything. HEALTH!!   Celebrate every day. It's not childish. It's knowing where I came from. White teeth, fresh clothes, younger skin, way more money to spend with the man I love, no more rushing out at restaurants. Yahoo self love!
The rewards start from day 1....and just keep on coming....
    good days   no smoke    bad days    no smoke    daytime no smoke    nighttime   no smoke        yay you.
In order to create a sleep sanctuary in my bedroom, I started by cleaning the windows inside and outside. Put the curtains in the machine, fresh sheets on the bed after cleaning the bed itself, vacuumd and mopped. Sorted out the closet, threw away junk that was just hangin' around there and spreading god-knows-what kind of occult dark energy.        Last night I slept ok, I think I got 6 hours. Got some energy back, good for sponging, scrubbing and cleansing my house. I think I have sharper taste already and my morning squeak has vanished! Also when I take a deep breath, I am able to uhhhhhh. How do I say that. Complete it? Finish it up to the point where my lungs feel full? Well, whatever. It's a joy, anyway.
5 hours ago, My life, my recovery said:             In order to create a sleep sanctuary in my bedroom, I started by cleaning the windows inside and outside. Put the curtains in the machine, fresh sheets on the bed after cleaning the bed itself, vacuumd and mopped. Sorted out the closet, threw away junk that was just hangin' around there and spreading god-knows-what kind of occult dark energy.                                Last night I slept ok, I think I got 6 hours. Got some energy back, good for sponging, scrubbing and cleansing my house. I think I have sharper taste already and my morning squeak has vanished! Also when I take a deep breath, I am able to uhhhhhh. How do I say that. Complete it? Finish it up to the point where my lungs feel full? Well, whatever. It's a joy, anyway.     AH yes! the feeling of the deep breath! I know just what you are saying!!!!!!!!!! I was experiencing a lot of shortness of breath (paired w anxiety) but now that i haven't smoked in 18 days (who is counting?) i do NOT feel that and can breath like idk....a normal person? Congrats on this!!!!
    You guys are doing great and the benefits will just keep coming 
24 minutes ago, Christa326 said:                AH yes! the feeling of the deep breath! I know just what you are saying!!!!!!!!!! I was experiencing a lot of shortness of breath (paired w anxiety) but now that i haven't smoked in 18 days (who is counting?) i do NOT feel that and can breath like idk....a normal person? Congrats on this!!!!            So good to hear your breathing is also  improving. How about the anxiety? So far I'm surprised,  I don't have significantly more panic attacks. They are not decreasing either, maybe when all is balanced out a bit more ..
    Thanks @jillar. I try to mention the benefits every day, part of staying committed to my quit. 
18 minutes ago, My life, my recovery said:              So good to hear your breathing is also  improving. How about the anxiety? So far I'm surprised,  I don't have significantly more panic attacks. They are not decreasing either, maybe when all is balanced out a bit more ..        @My life, my recovery - i have to admit my anxiety has gone down A LOT since quitting, I noticed this when i quit last time as well. I still have it especially in certain situations but it is much better without nicotine.        @jillar - thanks so much!!!!!!!!
    Here I go again. Emotions all over the place. Since late afternoon feeling  unsteady and on top of that, judgemental about it. And so addict thoughts pop up like weeds after a rain shower. Got to put them where they belong: the land of the fairy tales.        I will NOT feel better when I smoke. I will feel better when I start accepting myself more. Breathing out smoke is NOT soothing. After writing this, finishing laundry and then having a walk will calm me down. Driving to the gas station and buying cigarettes will NOT be like 'I don't care and even about that I don't care'. I want to care. I do care. And so I stay home. And do stuff that's actually good for me.             
    My life, I stayed close to home my first month or two and only ventured out when my hubby could go with me because I didn't trust myself not to give in. You are doing EVERYTHING right!  
    Your brain and body are being reconfigured. This is a great opportunity to learn a lot about yourself and what to change or how to adapt.   Be kind to yourself and lavish yourself with all kinds of rewards to reclaim your endorphins...wrench them away from nicotine's power. 
    No extra points for making quitting harder.  Shut down the addict thoughts a fast as possible.  Tell yourself to move on.
7 hours ago, jillar said:               My life, I stayed close to home my first month or two and only ventured out when my hubby could go with me because I didn't trust myself not to give in. You are doing EVERYTHING right!    Wow,  talkin'about self discipline!  Thanks for your support. Good to know other people have been there too. Sometimes I wonder, what's crazier. The addiction or the ways we have to deal with fighting, accepting and finally living with it
7 hours ago, Sazerac said:              Your brain and body are being reconfigured.                 This is a great opportunity to learn a lot about yourself and what to change or how to adapt.                   Be kind to yourself and lavish yourself with all kinds of rewards to reclaim your endorphins...wrench them away from nicotine's power.          Concerning reconfiguration.. I slept for 5 whole hours this night . Yesterday as well, silently hoping this will be the announcement of better sleep times. And otherwise it will give me just about enough rest to battle on . Today will be day 10. Sounds good to me. Amidst all of the fuss there's one steady factor:  not smoking today!Edited August 31, 2018 by My life, my recovery
6 hours ago, Paul723 said:              No extra points for making quitting harder.  Shut down the addict thoughts a fast as possible.  Tell yourself to move on.           Yep, no lingering. Deflating these thoughts head on! Like with really bad farts, it's essential to let the air out or it will eat you from the inside...
    Made these a long time ago.         'And here I am, using my own lungs like a sucker' - Homer 
4 hours ago, My life, my recovery said:                 1 hour ago, My life, my recovery said:                              Made these a long time ago.                                                                         'And here I am, using my own lungs like a sucker' - Homer                   Fab !!!!.....I sense a bit of humour appearing... Lol.....  Quitting is not all doom and gloom...it can be fun...   Those lungs are cool...
    On having another look...my dirty gutter brain has kicked in...
1 hour ago, Doreensfree said:               On having another look...my dirty gutter brain has kicked in..          Now that you mention it, mine does too!
    I was wondering who'd be the first to mention 
    Yea, I saw it too lol
1 hour ago, My life, my recovery said:              I was wondering who'd be the first to mention   Lol...  Dam I should have waited ..thankfully I'm not the only dirty  ticket around here....    Have you got the pattern ...whahaha..... Mine will need alot of wool...
@Doreensfree ha, nope sorry. Made it freestyle.     I crocheted other stuff by the way, in the direction you are thinking of. Art, I call it. Not sure if it's appropriate for here though..     Edited September 1, 2018 by My life, my recovery
    Oh !!!!....interesting....come and sit by me !!!! Lol...
Day eleven: completed. Did the swimming bear, waving reed, I flied and made waves. Quit Gong, so to speak. Made me relaxed and I want to incorporate it into morning- and evening rituals.      Heading towards 2 weeks, next wednesday evening. I'm on the right track, education is making some room now for deeper breathing and stretching. Although I'm still edgy, I have a kind of new calm. I'm somewhat easier in arguments and am feeling less agressive. Because hey, I've killed almost twice, last week.. and today I 'solved' an argument by leaving the situation and shouting bitchy statements through the wall. Progression       Long story short... let's continue!
    Fantastic update My Life, you're doing a great job so far, so keep it going.
    Long﻿﻿﻿﻿ story s﻿h﻿ort... le﻿t'﻿s cont﻿inue!﻿       Great post M !!!....upwards and onwards !!!
    Ok, for some reason I'm having a difficult moment, just a few quick words to reassure myself.   * don't want to go back to craving, spending meetings waiting for a moment to get out and smoke, losing money over a body- and soul destroying addiction.   * I am going to book the sauna  * I will make myself tea when I come home, cook dinner and do a flying bear, wild goose or flowing river.   *  ................................................................. * <--  quit smoking leaves room for new things!!!
    Here's one for yousex health money and time
    *smoking can not, will not, does not, has not ever done anything for you.   We smoked because we were well trained nicotine slaves.     Congrats on KTQ...it truly honestly does get better!
    Love the positive affirmations my life, you so got this girl 
16 hours ago, c9jane29 said:                                    Congrats on KTQ...it truly honestly does get better!            KTQ....?!
15 minutes ago, My life, my recovery said:              KTQ....?!               KTQ = Keep The Quit
The past 30 hours I learned some valuable lessons.      * https://purrli.com is a great website to ride out panic attacks, especially when breathing exercise fails  and your'e too frozen to comfort yourself. Or when you like cat purring but are having cat allergy.    * asking for help when unable to reach own self, is worth gold. I used to think that being that close to smoking meant assured failure. But being that close to smoking ánd reaching out, while everything about that act feels uncomfortable and awkward, is a major thing.    * starting Qi Gong and over-doing the flying bear, wild waves, loose goose, poisenous snake etc. might not be such a good idea, early on during quitting. There's a change you'd spoil all the Qi you have left and thus freak out. Takin' it nice and easy and maybe just start with a lazy buddha posture.    * KTQ = keep(ing) the quit. Which I did.
    You're doing a great job of expanding your learning and building on the tools that work for you. Really good work My life.      It's very useful to others that you are recapping what you have found beneficial. It's a smart way of filing all those handy lessons away for the next time you want to use them. 
Ok, risking the case that I might come across as manic... but I had yet anóther epiphany.       I was thinking, how do all my previous quits (of one month, half a year, one week, few days etc) differ from the one that lasted nearly three years and cost me, after a month or 10, 11, almost no effort? (and got spoiled by my total stupidity and arrogance, that of a first time quitter) And I suddenly realised.. for me it's about confusing being a quit smoker with being a non smoker. I always thought, addiction is forever. It's about not puffing anymore. And ofcourse that's correct. But that does not mean I remain a smoker who happens not to smoke, by choice. Because... I, uh...quit. oke, does this make sense? So, I am a non smoker with an addiction, not a quit smoker with an addiction. Maybe it's about getting into character after all. And by that, de-identifying myself from being 'a smoker'.            By now I am totally unsure if what I think comes from a clean brain or a deluted, crazed and sleep deprived  brain...  My thoughts run wild. I guess it's ok and part of the process
    It is okay to keep your mind running wild because you are changing your mindset for the good.  I think that the key to quitting the addiction is changing our mindset.  You sound perfectly logical to me!  Keep going girl.  Your are going to win this!
    It's perfectly 'normal' to have these kinds of thoughts.  Your body and brain are learning new ways of living.  By now, I'm sure you're at the point where taking a deep breath actually feels enjoyable rather than something that makes you cough.  I used to love that about quitting (and still do).        You're doing really well.  Keep posting here . Folks who tend to stay close to the board and share their experiences seem to have a greater chance of success.      Stay strong.
6 hours ago, My life, my recovery said:             Ok, risking the case that I might come across as manic... but I had yet anóther epiphany.                                       I was thinking, how do all my previous quits (of one month, half a year, one week, few days etc) differ from the one that lasted nearly three years and cost me, after a month or 10, 11, almost no effort? (and got spoiled by my total stupidity and arrogance, that of a first time quitter) And I suddenly realised.. for me it's about confusing being a quit smoker with being a non smoker. I always thought, addiction is forever. It's about not puffing anymore. And ofcourse that's correct. But that does not mean I remain a smoker who happens not to smoke, by choice. Because... I, uh...quit. oke, does this make sense? So, I am a non smoker with an addiction, not a quit smoker with an addiction. Maybe it's about getting into character after all. And by that, de-identifying myself from being 'a smoker'.                                Absolutely makes sense! The day I quit I became a non-smoker. That was it. Non-smokers don't smoke so; there is nothing that would make me want to smoke because non-smoker doesn't smoke their problems away.  I had a pretty delicate situation happen in my early quit that forged my quit in fire; a test of my resolve and new found self esteem/awareness...those moments make a quit, so keep the powerful feeling of overcoming those urges in your heart to carry you thru the low times.  That said...it is party time!!! Glitter guns out! Cuz MLMR is learning how to quit!!    N.O.P.E.
@Linda Thomas yeah, thanks.  @d2e8b8 yes, had that this morning when I woke up. Somehow I still have the 'habit'  of coughing when I open my eyes after sleep, but there's not much left to cough, ha. Feels great! And the need to rush out for coffee and a cigarette is also disappearing. @c9jane29 thanks for sharing that about your early quit. I too believe these experiences can make us succesfull in what we try to achieve here. The relief of still being smokefree after a (mini) crisis is priceless. And relief turning in to pride, which is happening with me right now.     -edit- by the way, got to be carefull with this glittergun, tonight I am celebrating the two-week-birthday of baby quit Chamele. Poor guy will go crazy Edited September 4, 2018 by My life, my recovery
This is what would have been given to me, had I decided two days ago to smoke just one...    ■ my cough in the morning  ■ my smelly hair    ■ my smelly fingers after smoking   ■ my cough during the day   ■ squeeking during moments I definitely didn't want to squeek   ■ smelling smokey fingers/hands when taking a shower and washing my face    ■ smoke that would sneak into my house when puffing outside ■ the disgusted look on my cat's face when I accidentely blew smoke in her direction    ■ the stench in my clothes  ■ brushing my teeth, after a smoke, knowing it would hardly matter  ■ being ashamed about my smelly breath during a kiss    ■ when someone drove with me, the shame about my stinky car ■ searching for a lighter   ■ before leaving the house, always checkin'  on cigarets and lighters   ■ thinking of smoking during dinner ■ thinking of smoking during breakfast  ■ thinking of smoking during visiting my granny, who is then dying of cancer in the hospital    ■ thinking of smoking during smoking    ■ after a night drinking and smoking sounding like someone with only half a vocal chord ■ the fortune I not only waisted, but used to destroy myself gradually  ■ the giant health risk I took  ■ knowing smoking contributes to depression and dissociation and still not being able to give up    ■ lack of breath during panic attacks   ■ wanting to smoke during that same panick attack   ■ being nervous all the time about not having enough cigarettes ■ hating myself for smoking and then, mortiefied, lighting up to cope with     the shame    ■ knowing that I am stuck in some sort of trap  ■ knowing that the fear I harbor for this trap, keeps me trapped    ■ the sheer dependency  ■ wrinkels  ■ elephant skin ■ dull, greyish skin    ■ dull hair ■ yellow fingers. Oh my god, these disgusting yellow fingertips.    ■ stinky ashtrays   ■ leaving the ashtray outside and then it's starting to rain    ■ forgetting to empty the garbage can, opening it and meeting a hell of  rotten vegetables and ashtray  ■ looking in the mirror, knowing that smoking has starting to have it's effect on me    ■ knowing that my lungs will be pretty blackish by now, but not being able to care for that     ■ the constant lack of energy   ■ feeling dizzy during a heavy walk on the beach    ■ the shame during a roadtrip with nonsmokers, to ask for a quick pitstop   ■ delaying everything in life by smoking: nehh, first a smoke and thén...   ■ not being able to cut back on smoking ■ swimming and seeing black in front of my eyes ■ the effect it had on daily interactions between me and other people   ■ days revolving around smoking ■ the way cigarettes dictated pretty much my every action   ■ hating myself, for knowing better, but ...    ■ having worked so hard in so many areas on myself and still having this  cigarette bossing me around   ■ ash on my couch   ■ ash in my car ■ burning cigarettes in my car, coming back through the window to haunt me  ■ ash on my clothes ■ knocking down full ashtrays   ■ trying to light a cigarette's rear end and feeling like a fool    ■ begging a stranger for a cigarette, when I lost my wallet ■ trying to light a cigarette in the storm  ■ trying to light a cigarette in the rain   ■ shame about smoking for the 100th time at work    ■ feeling bad about myself when smoking with kids around    ■ visiting my best friends new born, wanting to hold her but ashamed of my own smell    ■ craving during movies, theatre, shows, shopping, reading, talking, meetings, birthdays, flights       -edit- pretty impressive gift, huh?!             Edited September 7, 2018 by My life, my recovery
    That's one hell of a list to stay smoke free.... Great post !!!!        I can only add....would this have been the one....that started a smoke related illness....!!!!   
    My life, yes that's pretty impressive :).    Cheering for you, you're doing awesome.
    Omg! Amazing post!!!!
Today is totally crap. Moody, unsteady, too much time on my hands. Can't distract myself, reading here or anywhere else on the www does not help, afraid I will eat anyone who tells me what to do. Lucky for you guys I live far away. Day 16. Bleghhh,  so early in quit and so many days to go. This is something that WILL pass. Right? Edited September 7, 2018 by My life, my recovery
    Quitting is a roller coaster of emotions for sure...your still in the early days....your body is still messed up....    What can you do ..anything...eatiing is OK....snack on healthy stuff....carrots...apples...ect....  Go buy a hard jigsaw...this should keep your hands and brain busy...I did quite alot of them... Watch funny animal videos on you tube...there is tons of stuff to do....just one  you can,t..smoke....  Look at you wonderful list again...and again... We have a heap of games here to keep the mind busy.... Check them out....   Stay strong ..
18 minutes ago, Doreensfree said:               Quitting is a roller coaster of emotions for sure...your still in the early days....your body is still messed up....                    What can you do ..anything...eatiing is OK....snack on healthy stuff....carrots...apples...ect....                  Go buy a hard jigsaw...this should keep your hands and brain busy...I did quite alot of them...                 Watch funny animal videos on you tube...there is tons of stuff to do....just one  you can,t..smoke....                  Look at you wonderful list again...and again...                 We have a heap of games here to keep the mind busy.... Check them out....                   Stay strong ..          Thanks. I ended up reading stories of people who got lungcancer or other smoke related diseases. It brutally puts an end to any romanticizing of smoking. I'm 'lucky'  to be dealing with moodswings because of quitting, instead of batteling for my life because of continuing smoking.
Hi my life, mood swings are normal for us women in the early days/weeks of quitting. If you do need to see people maybe tell them you've quit smoking. Most people, non smokers included, will understand how difficult it is for some people and will cut you a break.     Congratulations on 16 days
9 minutes ago, jillar said:             Hi my life, mood swings are normal for us women in the early days/weeks of quitting. If you do need to see people maybe tell them you've quit smoking. Most people, non smokers included, will understand how difficult it is for some people and will cut you a break.                     Congratulations on 16 days   Yes. Unfortunately that doesn't mean I am allowed to do uhm, certain things. This afternoon, an old lady kept bumping into me with her shopping cart. I swear, I was about to tell her the ugly truth about.... well, sómething. After that, I bought myself nice new (way too expensive ) wool to make stuff with. I'm trying to bewitch the clock so it goes faster. I showered twice, I nearly drowned my plants and there's litteraly NO dust to be seen for miles around. I can't stand Joel Spitzers voice for a while, Allen Carrs audiobook has suddenly vanished from youtube and I hate myself for complaining. Oh god, I'm loosing it
    Well I see you still have your sense of humor so that's awesome! And if you need something to dust, I have plenty so come on over. It's so dry here in Cali that our dust is actual dirt  Dust one day, it's back the next, grrrrr. So it'll keep you busy for sure lol
    Don't say such things or I'll suddenly find myself in an airplane.. I am not to be trusted right now 
    you made me laugh, life.  Shopping cart as a deadly weapon, no dust anywhere and 'can't stand Joel's voice for a while' Many have felt like you, not that that is much comfort. Still, all you can do is live through it and understand it won't last long. You have a great quit going, your posts are marvelous and will continue to inspire  other quit. Cut yourself some slack and buy more wool !
Saz, it ís a comfort to know many have felt like this. It's easier to believe people who have been there. And venting here might just save my relationship and friendships and family bonds... most of them are non smokers by now, or have never smoked at all. They have no idea what I'm talking about. The other day someone said to me, 'Two weeks already? Ah, that means you're almost there and done'. This person has never even so much as touched a cigarette. She may be even right, but has no clue about the internal proces this costs.. which, by the way, I am very glad I'm undergoing.   In Holland we have a saying, 'Jantje lacht, Jantje huilt'. Literally it sais 'Johnny laughs, Johnny cries'.  I am like Johnny right now. Glad another day is almost done Edited September 7, 2018 by My life, my recovery
@My life, my recovery, my husband thought I should be "over" it at around three months. I told him that I probably would never be over it. Never smokers have no idea what we go through to rid ourselves of this habit. Yes, it gets better with time but we really are just one cigarette away from a pack a day. That's one of the reasons the board was so important to me. Everyone knew what I was going through at any given time and helped put me at ease as I went through the various stages.
    My life (or Johnny laughs/ cries), it's so good to see you share your experiences.  You're going through all the normal symptoms and I'm cheering that you'll get out the other side.       I used to snack so much that I'd literally eat everything in the house and fridge and almost went around the street asking neighbors if they had some snacks I could 'borrow'.      There used to be a funny post in QSMB that I liked to share - it was about all the experiences that we go through on quitting and was quite hilarious.  Wonder if we managed to save that ( @Nancy or @jillar).
14 minutes ago, d2e8b8 said:                My life (or Johnny laughs/ cries), it's so good to see you share your experiences.  You're going through all the normal symptoms and I'm cheering that you'll get out the other side.                                       I used to snack so much that I'd literally eat everything in the house and fridge and almost went around the street asking neighbors if they had some snacks I could 'borrow'.                                      There used to be a funny post in QSMB that I liked to share - it was about all the experiences that we go through on quitting and was quite hilarious.                  Wonder if we managed to save that ( @Nancy or @jillar).         I remember that thread d2,  I'll try to find it but Nancy may have better luck remembering what it was called or who wrote it. It was really good though so hopefully we can find it
@d2e8b8 thanks. Good to know they are normal symptoms, ha. They definitely feel ... unusual . For example, typing this. Looking for words. After each sentence I need to eat something,  like with smoking. But it's not like weighing a ton helps me with my foreign languages. Pfff. I still try to keep it as harmless as possible, but this evening I went from pickles to chocolate to salami to dinner left overs to cheese. Ah well.. tomorrow it's carrots again.           I am curious about that thread, hope @Nancy will find it!!.
@Nancy, I'm pretty sure the name of the thread was quit humor. Unfortunately that's one of the ones the wayback machine says wasn't archived (at least on the one date I found it on  )
4 hours ago, My life, my recovery said:             Saz, it ís a comfort to know many have felt like this. It's easier to believe people who have been there. And venting here might just save my relationship and friendships and family bonds... most of them are non smokers by now, or have never smoked at all. They have no idea what I'm talking about. The other day someone said to me, 'Two weeks already? Ah, that means you're almost there and done'. This person has never even so much as touched a cigarette. She may be even right, but has no clue about the internal proces this costs.. which, by the way, I am very glad I'm undergoing.                   In Holland we have a saying, 'Jantje lacht, Jantje huilt'. Literally it sais 'Johnny laughs, Johnny cries'.  I am like Johnny right now. Glad another day is almost done        First off, it is good to be like Johnny.     Anyway, I remember what you are talking about when dealing with non-smokers and never-smokers early on in my quit.  Many are very supportive and happy for you...for a few days or weeks.  After a while, they just assume that you are over it and that quitting smoking wasn't that big of a deal.  It doesn't work that way, normally.  As ex-smokers, we have centered our lives around cigarettes for a long time and the healing process with quitting does take time.  It gets much better but there are many ups and downs early on as you try to adjust to living as a non-smoker again.       That's what never-smokers don't understand and that's why I found seeking the support of other quitters on the message boards to be extremely useful in the quitting process.      Keep up the great work, My life.  You are doing great.
7 hours ago, My life, my recovery said:             The﻿ other day someone said to me, 'Two weeks already?﻿ Ah, that means you're almost there and done'.           So, keep a handful of glitter handy and next time they say anything, throw that shit in the air and walk off. Glitter bomb mike drop  because you are doing awesome!    After everything is dusted and eaten, you find something else to do, and you keep doing that until there's a day you don't think about smoking and you aren't just filling time because you're not smoking...   It just becomes life. Regular life and you wonder how you EVER had time to smoke so many cigarettes!        I used Bob Ross youtube videos and painted 100 ugly sunrises and gave them as gifts for every holiday.  I tried to learn to french braid my own hair for months...still can't! Don't care!      Now you know KTQ, I'll teach you ETQ (embrace the quit) because you have to embrace the process...you do your quit your way, but at the heart of it all is NOPE.
@johnny5 yes, exactly that. I am glad this board is so active. I learn a lot from other people. I try to adopt some strategies and at the same time I hope to discover my own way. It's been a huge help to write my own reply in the SOS board, I found out I can work with that also when it's not crisis time. It has an answer in it about my main theme with nicotine addiction. Learning that other people have gone through this as well ánd 'simply' survived, means the world.      @c9jane29 you deserve a medal for cheering!  From now on, I'll glitter bomb anyone who is cheeky enouh to sabotage me. Whenever you see huge clouds of glitter hoovering above Europe, you know it's me. And yes, please! Tell me more about ETQ (but please, keep Bob Ross to yourself. I won't tell you my birth date. Ever. Making birds out of mistakes.... talking about embracing the quit, that's more like Denying The Quit! ).
Nothing about today is comparable with yesterday, which is a good thing! When I woke up, it took me well over 5 minutes to remember that I quit smoking. Statistically this means I'm gaining 0.343 minutes of forgetting per day.  I'm rediscovering my home, smell-wise. Im becoming more aware of fragrances. Like my laundry shed, the different smells in my kitchen. Oh and I dare say that my sleeping habit is back to normal!!!!! So happy about that, it's never been this quick. It usualy took me at least about a whole month.. but many things are different this time. Still doing this day by day, but able to see it in a broader perspective already. Right now I am hopeful and confident, yihaaa
    Brilliant M !!! I can remember when my nose came alive....I went on a candle frenzy......   I still go outside and close my eyes and take in that deep breath of fresh air....and take in the smells ...    All your hard work is starting to pay off....the rewards will keep flying in....I can hear your strenth in your posts...    Good to know you are getting more sleep now...everything is temporary....    
Note to self: when you start being romantic about smoking, read this. Don't forget it's not 'just' about lungcancer and emphysema alone.     https://www.verywellmind.com/the-health-risks-of-smoking-2825323Edited September 8, 2018 by My life, my recovery
1 hour ago, My life, my recovery said:              Nothing about today is comparable with yesterday, which is a good thing! When I woke up, it took me well over 5 minutes to remember that I quit smoking. Statistically this means I'm gaining 0.343 minutes of forgetting per day.          I'm rediscovering my home, smell-wise. Im becoming more aware of fragrances. Like my laundry shed, the different smells in my kitchen. Oh and I dare say that my sleeping habit is back to normal!!!!! So happy about that, it's never been this quick. It usualy took me at least about a whole month.. but many things are different this time. Still doing this day by day, but able to see it in a broader perspective already. Right now I am hopeful and confident, yihaaa                        I'm glad today is better and loving your statistics . It will continue to get better. And really so very pleased about the sleep returning to normal levels, it is important that other newbies hear that any sleepless nights really are temporary.        Keep it going My Life, you are doing great.
12 minutes ago, My life, my recovery said:              Note to self: when you start being romantic about smoking, read this. Don't forget it's not 'just' about lungcancer and emphysema alone.                            https://www.verywellmind.com/the-health-risks-of-smoking-2825323        This is so true !!! I'm a prime example...of how smoking effects the body....a great reminder M....of why NOPE is so important....
20 minutes ago, Doreensfree said:                                   This is so true !!!                 I'm a prime example...of how smoking effects the body....a great reminder M....of why NOPE is so important....          I'm sorry to hear that Doreen, I rather whish that you weren't an example. I know there will come a day where my junkie thought will be something like this: 'there's no harm in smoking one, you've been off for longer periods of time and therefor your health risk is low'. The sad thing is, I cultivated this thought myself. I used to be so very angry with myself  when I didn't succeed in quitting,  it ruined my self esteem completely. Gradually I came to see that self loathing is devastating, in general actually haha. So I made a deal: I will only quit if I can stay friends with myself when I fail. It became easier and I often said, well, at least I've been off for a while again and been giving my body a good period of healing. I forgave myself rather easy. Now I know, this thought can become tricky for me further in my proces. The junkie could easily hijack this thought I initially created to help myself.  I guess it's a good thing that i'm prepared ..
    There is no such thing as !! Just one !!!....   I ruined many a quit...with this junkie thinking...it's a addiction.... I had a fight on my hands...or feet should I say lol....    My feet...or the nico monster.....  Once I totally understood what was at stake...the fight became easier...and the battles shorter...  Every battle you win M ...no matter how small ....is a battle towards freedom....
    hello m'life    Each and every crave you deny creates a new neural pathway in your brain.   The old connection to nicotine will be dead and a brand new path will be made.  It is beautiful !  Look !        
@Sazerac that's awesome. Just overcame a huge trigger (visiting the garden shop, for me thats like celebrating my birthday so it's a crave bound to something NICE). Imagening I just built a new route in my head is satisfying. 
Sorry I wasn't around when you came on the Quit Train but I have read some of the posts in this thread and you have received some great advice and insight into what this quit journey is all about and how to deal with things. Be sure to just deal with things a day at a time initially so you don't become overwhelmed. It make things easier that way   Reflect often on what you have already managed to deal with successfully because once you have completed the first 4-6 weeks, you have beaten the worst of it. After that, as Johnny mentioned, it's more reprogramming your brain to function normally and happily again without smokes. It does take a long time to readjust your thinking. That doesn't involve craves necessarily but more an adjustment in your thinking. That's the part no one but a quitter really understands. That's also why it's important to stick around here (with other quitters) after the first while. We get it! We speak the same lingo as all other new quitters. It may seem like those of us who have a year or more quits under our belts are different from you but, we're not. We were all where you are now at one time. You can be where we are in time too if you do the work required. It's that simple - just NOPE!
     @reciprocity thanks for taking the time to write. You are right, I got some great advice and support here already. Taking it day by day seems to be working good for me, though sometimes I can't help but be impatient. Right now it helps me to write a lot of my thoughts down, so I can actively change them.. I do hope there will come a day I can live without this board though... seriously. Longing for that time where quitting goes more natural and doesn't require this hard working and constant rewiring. Also, in the past I really put some relationships at stake by quitting, so trying to keep the proces more to myself this time (and ofcourse by sharing here).        Ah well.... day by day 
39 minutes ago, My life, my recovery said:               @reciprocity thanks for taking the time to write. You are right, I got some great advice and support here already. Taking it day by day seems to be working good for me, though sometimes I can't help but be impatient. Right now it helps me to write a lot of my thoughts down, so I can actively change them.. I do hope there will come a day I can live without this board though... seriously. Longing for that time where quitting goes more natural and doesn't require this hard working and constant rewiring. Also, in the past I really put some relationships at stake by quitting, so trying to keep the proces more to myself this time (and ofcourse by sharing here).                                        Ah well.... day by day  I think your experience is like most of what we all go through  It is an individual journey that is made better by sharing it with others who have gone through the same thing.And yes ...... there will be a day when you CAN live without the support this board gives to you. Many leave this board and others stay. Either way is fine but be sure to stay long enough to cement your own quit. As you do this, you will be helping others following in your footsteps, even tough you may not realize it. This is why people here with many years quit yet still remain. If we can say one thing that helps another person to quit or maintain their quit, it is well worth the effort and it helps us to remember the struggle we went through to get to the point we are at as well. Complacency, once the real struggle is over,  has been the ruin of many a long term quit.
Achieved successes in daily, non smoking life.  It's a good start, for sure I will continue to encounter new common triggers for a while. Bring it on!  ♡ waking up -> no smoking!  ♡ driving -> no smoking!    ♡ working -> no smoking!    ♡ riding out dinner aftermath -> no smoking!    ♡ grocery shopping -> no smoking!   ♡ visiting friends -> no smoking!   ♡ lying awake at night -> no smoking!   ♡ doing chores like dishes, cleaning etc. -> no smoking!        Achieved successes, after ...   ♡ feeling sad (few times)   ♡ feeling lonely (few times, but severe)    ♡ being angry (uh... well. A lot. How splendid, quitting nicotine gives me great opportunity to deal with anger, ha!)   ♡ a fight (read the above)  ♡ insecurity (on daily basis)   ♡ emptyness (few times) ♡ a hardcore panic attack (once, severe. Twice mildly. Definitely NOT induced by quitting, 'just' my regulairs).        ^These ^ successes mean I'm starting to deal in new ways with unwanted emotions. Instead of covering them up in a veil of smoke, I let them be. Not always easy, but it's definitely doable. (And: I covered most of the primary emotions already: anger, fear and sadness. Actually, that's something to be grateful for, ha! Thank you, rollercoaster drama sensitive brain, you give me great opportunities to rewire!)      Achieved successes, in relation to nice things! These successes are a bit of a mystery to me, because I've never felt guilty about smoking in these situations. So, not smoking there doesn't necessarily make me proud. Just... neutral or something? All the more reason to emphasize them, they were just as much part of my smoking life and maybe even responsible for a great deal of explaining away and romanticizing smoking.  ♡ shopping at the garden centre, yesterday. How common it is for me to look at all the plants and stuff I bought and have a satisfying smoke. (What? No! I mean, to have a toxic, burning stick, which does horrible things to your physical and mental health) ♡ doing something nice with my man (all sorts of nice. Not to be further discribed). And nót having smokes in advance, during or afterwards!    ♡ long, nice walks  ♡ these absurd long video calls with my good friend where I used to smoke my brains out. Now I'm gnawing on a carrot. Yay!   Edited September 9, 2018 by My life, my recovery
    Your writing on your experiences is superb. Thank you and congratulations. 
10 hours ago, Sslip said:               Your writing on your experiences is superb. Thank you and congratulations.          I agree! You are doing fabulous Mlmr     And, whether you realize it or not, your posts help us longer term quitters as well. We tend to forget the raw emotions we also felt early on in our quits, or at least they have faded into the background of our mind. Reading posts like yours helps remind us what we also went through and just how precious our hard earned quits are! Thanks for that
Piggys right. I almost forgot already how hard it was. Climbing walls for 5 months and stuff. I won. You shall win too...persevere.
    You're doing awesome, My life.      Successes ... reminds me that I'd want to 'celebrate' one week quit, one month quit etc with ... a smoke.  We have to constantly be on guard as this monster has a habit of trying to sneak in when we start to feel comfortable.       I'm following your journey and cheering you on. 
What a day. Though I understand it's a trick of the addict mind, it's almost like the first few days. Foggy, staring at peoples faces when they tell me something while having no clue what its about. I wonder what my face looks like when I do that. Whenever my mind drifts off to smoking, I start singing or talking out loud about something. Working is a joke today, literally nothing usefull comes out of my hands. I am counting hours, till next wednesday evening, 20:08. That will mark three weeks. Not so sure how to 'embrace' what's going on now. It annoys me, it scares me a bit, I have no muscles ready to attack junkie thinking. I am sure about not smoking, definitely. But I wish I were sure about this state of mind being temporary! It has to be! I would be the first on earth to be dealing with these withdrawl symptoms like forever! Just can't be !! Soon the washing drum will make easy, enjoyable rounds, instead of this wild tumbling program. And then I'll be like clean, white sheets
    MLMR, I think you already ETQ (I can tell from every post you've made that you OWN this quit and are making it a part of your life instead of just waiting for it to happen. You are actively changing your routines and mindset to take on your new life as a non-smoker.) I think today was just a bad day and that's okay because even non-smokers have bad days. I would do the same talk, sing, I would even say out loud "I'm so glad I quit smoking!" (Eat chocolate)    The brain fog does go away! Or we would all be in the corner sucking our thumbs or smoking again!   I know it doesn't help to hear that it gets better while you are in the middle of it, but this is that "fake it til you make it" time frame...even on the bad days remember how much you love your quit and everyday you don't smoke and instead come here; grows those muscles against junkie thinking. Don't wait another week to reward yourself, find something small to do for yourself everyday if you can. Paint your nails, do a charcoal face mask (go out of your comfort zone a little because the non-smoking you might like things now that you didn't as a smoker)    I think you're doing great so please have a treat and good night sleep!!    Also...keep glitter handy for mouthy co-workers!! 
My life, my recovery,       Your post today brought back a flood of memories from when I was at your point in time after I stopped smoking. The memories are as if no time has passed. The emotions were so strong. I also was going through days in a heavy fog and wondering how it was perceived by the people around me. I had told nobody that I stopped smoking for about 5 weeks. I was very surprised to find that nobody had noticed any change in me during that time. While I was definitely obsessed with the emotional changes and felt that I was wandering around in a thick fog, those around me were oblivious to any change in me. I was not concerned that I would smoke, but like you, I was very concerned about how long that state of mind would persist. I can sure understand how scary the thought of forever can be. Unfortunately, I can't offer an answer to those questions. I can only offer an understanding to much of what you are now experiencing. I know that at just under 3 weeks quit I just kept moving forward in very small time increments. Sometimes it was just one deep breath after another, or one distraction after another. You are doing great, and there is nothing unusual about what you are experiencing.
Well how nice is that, apparantly I've been ETQing all a long. ..  but you are right @c9jane29, I am committed to making this work.     During a day like this, I have at least 3 moments where I am so happy about quitting, even if it's just seconds. The other day I read something that said, when you quit, whatever you feel, it's intense. The good stuff also! I totally agree. And these moments hold promises for what it will be like in the future, I trust in that.   I know that I'm dealing with patterns here, not some real time demon or monster. How come it is so tempting to think about it in that way?  The anxiety/depression thing came up frequently today. ('Ah, with my history it must be extra hard. What if I don't succeed?' and  'Be prepared to feel like this for at least a year!'). While the matter of fact is: since quitting I do NOT experience any more anxiety than I usualy do and I have NO sense of that hardcore depression I know all too well. In fact, my brain is more lively  than usual,  I feel connected to people here, I live my life, I do my things, I make no major f*ck-ups. I think about rewarding myself, I wonder about self care, I try to make things as easy and enjoyable as possible for myself. And there's also the occasional fog, the crying, the bitching, the binging and the unrest. Apparantly thats just part of the deal, for now. It's funny, many people here tell me it will pass and then say right away 'although it won't be of any comfort now' but... it really is of comfort!!!  When I tell myself that, it doesn't really have the same magic effect, I guess I need some practice at that. 'This too shall pass'.   @Joe7 that's extraordinary, that the world in your mind was so different from what people around you perceived. Thanks for sharing. Edited July 15 by MLMR
Here is some info about "brain fog":https://www.quittrain.com/topic/10324-the-great-smoke-free-mental-fog/  I told myself that it didn't matter, everything else could wait on me a bit so I could concentrate on quitting.  Your mind and body will heal itself from the damage done to it by smoking.  Unfortunately we smoked for years and healing takes time.  Do your best to keep your attitude up.
34 minutes ago, My life, my recovery said:              The anxiety/depression thing came up frequently today. ('Ah, with my history it must be extra hard.         I also have a history of depression and anxiety  with panic attacks.  You might check with your physician to see if they can adjust medication during your quit.  When you are feeling down, just follow Doreen.  She is full of a lot of humor and fun.
37 minutes ago, Paul723 said:               Here is some info about "brain fog":        https://www.quittrain.com/topic/10324-the-great-smoke-free-mental-fog/                  I told myself that it didn't matter, everything else could wait on me a bit so I could concentrate on quitting.  Your mind and body will heal itself from the damage done to it by smoking.  Unfortunately we smoked for years and healing takes time.  Do your best to keep your attitude up.          Thanks! Will read it And you are right. Quitting is my no1 priority right now. I do wonder when it will become less of an obsession though... must be heaven!       33 minutes ago, Linda Thomas said:              I also have a history of depression and anxiety  with panic attacks.  You might check with your physician to see if they can adjust medication during your quit.  When you are feeling down, just follow Doreen.  She is full of a lot of humor and fun.    Well the thing is, to my surprise I don't have any extra symptoms of all of that. Nothing other than what is to be expected in the first weeks of quitting. Chance is, during bad days you will hear me say something completely different... but thats about perspective, ha!Edited September 10, 2018 by My life, my recovery
    My life, it will pass :).   Physical activity seems to help, walking, running, cycling - whatever works for you.        Stay strong.
Saw this add today, I believe it was in an old thread, think @notsmokinjo posted it. Funny and uplifting! Watched it twice today, when I had mehhh-moments. Thanks! Oh and I thought of something. Today is just as important as any milestone. Because it is what will get me there!        Edited September 11, 2018 by My life, my recovery
    My Life, I love i!
I am going beserk! These thoughts keep coming and coming and coming. I do everything in my power and it's just not enough to feel normal. When will this stop for f'ss?! I am NOT stupid, I try so hard to understand, to debunk, to outsmart and to breath through. Ahhhhh﻿ to hell with it. I will never ever go through this again and to prevent that I am not going to smoke, maybe that's all it has to be about now. I have endless lists and writings. Is it too much maybe?  Am I obsessed? I just dont know and it's driving me insane. They call this hellweek and wether or not I 'believe' in som﻿ething like that, it IS a bloody fight at the moment. What's with this sh*t?! I did not reach this part of quitting to give up once again, right?! Edited September 12, 2018 by My life, my recovery
    Right!
    Ok, who am I kidding. Ofcourse this is part of the deal and also part of the reason I wanted to quit in the first place. No more dependency. It is what it is right now and it will. Not. Stay. That. Way. As. Long. As. I. Don't. Smoke. 
    I think you're in WTF week now my life and you're seeing why it's named that! Everything you're going through is normal. Just keep on plugging along day by day and you will get out of it and feel so much better  
    Yes, don't rush the process because you can't. You need to let it all happen and deal with the craves for the first while then the readjustment of your way of thinking as it relates to smoking. You'll see. Over time smoking just no longer fits into your life and you don't subconsciously think about needing a cig. after you experience some sort of emotion whether that be sadness, joy, boredom or loneliness. Life is so much better after you pay your quitting dues and, you'll never, ever have to go through this again   Just carry on through these early days and come here to rant and rave when you need to.
    The first three weeks are in the pocket!! Still a bit battered from these last few days. But! Incredibly happy I'm here at this point now. I powered through, yeah. Next week's challenge: daily walking, so I will see more of what's in the world, instead of focussing on what's happening inside.     Ahhhhh I AM DOING THIS!!  
    You are doing this and doing it well! That third week for me was the worst of the lot for a reason I don't understand to this day. Congratulations to you, fantastic achievement, keep it going. 
Congrats MLMR!! 3 weeks down! Party time!!
    You don't smoke anymore, M'life !   and each moment, each day will add to your confidence.  Smoking is something you used to do,    Now, you are a free woman.  Congratulations !
    Awesome, My life, Congratulations!      You're doing so well and ... one day you'll be telling someone that these symptoms are all normal.
    Yay my life, congrats  
    Wonderful....your doing great !!!!
Day 22. Read something here the other day about nicotine and dopamine, and, after years of false rewarding,  the proces of learning to be happy again with normal things. Nothing new but somehow it landed. In order to ETQ with a bit more grace and fun, I have to PAR! Meaning: plan, act and reward. So simple that last week when I wallowed a liiiiitle bit in self pity, it seemed just too rediculously straightforward to be a true answer to my very significant and grave problem at that time. 'Yeah, maybe it works for other people but hey, their lives must be so much less complicated than mine, I need some super special, undiscovered and extraordinary solution to get rid of this mental withdrawl circus'.         Well...... whatever. I managed to shrugg off some pretentiousness, borrowed @Sazerac's Big Girl pants (thanks a million!) and planned on walking this morning. Then I acted upon that plan, walked my ass of for one hour and a half, came home and rewarded myself with:   a. Going throuh the cirkel of par (actually, part P and A together = part R already. Einstein would be stunned).    b. Pride    c. Tea  d. Really Dark Chocolate        Thanks so much Wise Old Mentors, for sharing your experiences! It really helps in unmasking various aspects of addiction and in learning to accept that they apply to me as well. I am no exception to the rules... there's some  simplicity and relief in that thought, actually.                       Edited July 15 by MLMR
1 hour ago, My life, my recovery said:              In﻿ order to ETQ with a bit more grace and fun, I have to PAR! Meaning: pl﻿an, act and ﻿reward﻿ You gave me goosebumps!! This is how you quit!!
@c9jane29 :
Your dialogs are so useful to anyone quitting or, wanting to quit . Thank you so much for your insight, M'life.     I think every addict believes their case is special,     that their case is the exception.      Part of our solidarity here is about admitting that we are basically all the same   and all have similar issues that dealing honestly with our addiction exposes.       None of us are special snowflakes.      I will look up some old posts about 'snowflakes',   older quitters blazed that trail for me even when I thought I was a 'special case' too.  My addiction was, of course, more addictive than other peoples.    You can hear how ridiculous that sounds !       I am happy to share my big girl clothing with you.  They are community property after all, and  albeit tattered from some needed tough love,    remain plenty sturdy enough. lol.    Here   are the results of a 'special snowflake' search.    We all dabbled in our 'specialness'Edited September 14, 2018 by Sazeraclink
My life, so glad you found your super special solution.  Exercise helped me a lot also.      So great to read your journey.  You're doing really well.   Stay strong.                
Jep.. had two last night. I woke up in the middle of the first one, panicking I had actually been smoking. In the second one I smoked again, thinking: it doesn't matter now anyway, blew my quit already. I felt really, really sad when I woke up, thinking for a while my effort had been pointless. Even when I realised it had been a dream, it lingered for a while and surprise surprise, I craved a cigarette.      One of my fears in this journey is that there will come a moment that I just don't care enough about my health, my life and that I loose connection. After seeing the video, I can translate the sadness to my commitment, the effort I'm putting in quitting, my hope for succeeding. This is what I want!! To be as healthy as possible within my power and to put this stupid cancer stick behind me once and for all. I ám connected to that and it's time to conciously grow some trust. Going to PAR a walk!      P.s. I long for the time when all settles a bit and the need for voicing everything gradually disappears ... there must be life after quitting, right?   Edited July 15 by MLMR
3 hours ago, My life, my recovery said:                                 P.s. I long for the time when all settles a bit and the need for overexposure gradually disappears ... there must be life after quitting, right?                        This time will come to you as it has to others as you discover how to live life without everything being linked to smoking. Yes, there's life after quitting and it's so much better when you can live your life being free of the grip of this addiction
    The good thing is as you get into the quit, you start managing to focus on other things for a greater period of time, which then translates into forgetting about smoking for greater periods of time.      The dreams can hit from time to time, I've had a couple of them over the months quit.
    Just a dream tho? Then no problem ML! Just dying memories is all... An educated quit makes all the difference, and I think you're doing great!  Here, let's have some of my birthday pancakes to celebrate!  
22 hours ago, Sazerac said:             Your dialogs are so useful to anyone quitting or, wanting to quit .                 Thank you so much for your insight, M'life.                                     I think every addict believes their case is special,                     that their case is the exception.                                      Part of our solidarity here is about admitting that we are basically all the same                   and all have similar issues that dealing honestly with our addiction exposes.                                       None of us are special snowflakes.                                      I will look up some old posts about 'snowflakes',                   older quitters blazed that trail for me even when I thought I was a 'special case' too.                         My addiction was, of course, more addictive than other peoples.         You can hear how ridiculous that sounds !                                       I am happy to share my big girl clothing with you.                  They are community property after all, and                  albeit tattered from some needed tough love,                    remain plenty sturdy enough. lol.                           Here            are the results of a 'special snowflake' search.                    We all dabbled in our 'specialness'         Thanks for your snowflake search. It's one the hardest hitting insights so far. Funny how wired we are for clinging to our misery.. All the more refreshing to know it will only postpone  freedom.
@reciprocity yes. Looking forward to that! It's a bit like peeling off an onion: removing smoking memories from day to day life. Went to shoppingmall this morning, I used to smoke one while parking, right before entering the shopping croud  (something I uhm dislike, to say the least). Making new memories, new pathways@Sslip true. Distraction is key. I decided distraction has to have a goal in it, otherwise it just feels too pointless. So, I'm learning to eat with chopsticks hahaha! Done it for some time now, but never properly. @c9jane29 ohhhh it's your aniversary!! Sorry I missed it. That's the disadvantage of quitting, my universe has become darn small and inwards... but! I do LOVE pancakes and am gladly joining, they look fantastic  Shall we eat them with chopsticks? Edited September 15, 2018 by My life, my recovery
16 minutes ago, My life, my recovery said:              ohhhh﻿ it's your aniversary﻿!! ﻿Sorry I missed it. That's the disadvantage of quitting, my universe﻿ has become darn small and inwards... but! I do LOVE pancakes and am gladly joining, they look fantastic  Shall we eat them with chopsticks?
6 minutes ago, c9jane29 said:               It's my birthday...plus, I just like to celebrate!! Chopsticks or not we will certaintly need glucose monitoring    Ohhh ha, I looked up your quit date, 14-5-2017... but in a world where long quitters live there's also such a thing as regular birthdays. Well anyway, congratulations! !!
    'Not stopping smoking, look like me you will in the end' 
Conquered new triggers in the past 24 hours     ● Went to a great open air concert. Pushed junkie thinking away, wasnt going to let it ruin the music. It came back a few times, it helped to look at how calm the other non-smokers seemed to be. I want that for myself in the near future and there's only one way to get there: No smoking. I am proud for talking myself through the night!     ● Had a hangover this morning, without the additional dead rat's taste/lack of energy because of chain smoking the entire evening. And did definitely NOT miss the hardship of having to smoke while too hungover to even 'like' it.   ● Went outside for a delicious afternoon recovery coffee. Warm weather, nice and sunny. Smoking people everywhere. This was a tough one, but I did it.       Edited September 17, 2018 by My life, my recovery
    This is splendid news, M'life.  Non smokers ARE calm.  The junkie isn't ruling our lives anymore.   I am so proud of you and you are so right,  hangovers are better smoke free, still can pack a punch but a lot easier than a smokey hangover too.        Soon, people smoking everywhere will just be disgusting and not a temptation AT ALL.    Poor sods.      Sending encouragement for the week ahead and looking forward to your posts. S
Starting to notice a few things, since quitting almost 4 weeks ago      * My agitation of the first two weeks is diminishing! I can still be very snappy sometimes, but it’s easier to regulate.    * The Great Fog is very slowly dissolving. Concentration is better, though still far from what it used to be. I find it hard to focus on something for a longer period of time, whether it’s a conversation, computerwork, a meeting, a movie... but I notice that I don’t have the distraction of wanting to smoke any longer, that constant need to deal with withdrawl symptoms (because that’s what ‘wanting’ to smoke is. So happy to get that now). Taking my time and checking on  H.A.L.T. (Hungry, Angry, Lonely, Tired) helps.    * More and more often I realise I haven’t been thinking of smoking for a while. * Everything feels more intense: the bad stuff, but also definitely the good stuff. Once in a while I have these moments where I feel so satisfied, in the moment, grounded. It’s new to me, but I think I like it a lot and it makes me hopeful for the future.    * Last but not least, healthy skin!
    Wow, My life.  That is so good to hear.     It does get easier, doesn't it?         I remember, I used to want to celebrate these milestones with a ... smoke.  This habit is insidious and wants to strike just when we start to feel a little comfortable.  Stay vigilant.        How's the walking going?        (Btw, good to see you paying it forward in another thread).
@d2e8b8 yes, it does. But I will be careful .. I don't think I left wash drum phase yet. On a day like this I do have my down moments as well, but I try to focus almost exessively on the positives and keep the 'fake it untill you make it' attitude. Reverse brainwashing.      Walking goes well. Did it every day since last wednesday, usualy around 45'.  When I have a hard time I go for a very quick walk around the building (work or at home). With quitting, it's like having two jobs.. Ha. I still spend a lot of time reading and adjusting in day to day life.        About paying it forward, hope I will be able to do that. Don't really feel confident enough in my own quit yet to 'have  a right to speak', so to say... but that will change overtime and then 'llI be more than happy to support others. So important to know you're not alone in this.        Edited September 17, 2018 by My life, my recovery
47 minutes ago, My life, my recovery said:              About paying it forward, hope I will be able to do that. Don't really feel confident enough in my own quit yet to 'have  a right to speak', so to say... but that will change overtime and then 'llI be more than happy to support others. So important to know you're not alone in this.               You're already paying it forward My life, each time you update your thread
Just got home from work. It was a foggy day again.. so weird how the days seem completely randomly affected by that.        Current mood:  I want you all to understand dutch so I'm able to rant and write fluently without having to think of words/grammar. I hardly talk to people around me about quitting, I want to spare them and I don't want to be the annoying exsmoker talking about bloody quitting ALL THE TIME. But the truth is, it is on my mind a lot during the day..  people closest to me know about it and they are a support, really. I know that I am not fighting any monster, or battling against myself for that matter. But trying to figure this addiction thing out, understanding what it means, while tumbling in that bl**dy washing drum....pfiewww. It's like trying to make head, heart and hands work together (I'm not sure if that's a saying in english. But whatever, I think it's obvious).   Tomorrow it's four weeks. They went so fast and so slow at the same time. It must be junkie thinking messing with perception.    Edited September 18, 2018 by My life, my recovery
My life, I didn't talk to hardly anyone about my quit offline either. In fact I didn't tell anyone except for my husband and a couple close friends that I had quit until about week 6. After about six months my husband said shouldn't you be over it by now! Him being a never smoker he has no idea that most of us will never "be over it" and that one slip can send us back to a pack a day.  That's why the support of fellow quitters on the forum is/was so important to me. We know what you're going through and are here to lend an ear and any support we can offer Edited September 18, 2018 by jillar
21 hours ago, jillar said:                                  You're already paying it forward My life, each time you update your thread              This is the truth, M'life.  Your experience is invaluable, your writing honest and your presence is a real gift to QTrain.
This was my note to self, in the pre-respond SOS topic. I know I am going to need it today. I asked a few people around me if they will support me just that little bit of extra today. This is such a day where, in previous quits, I would 'suddenly' find myself smoking, beating myself up afterwards. Little time and energy today for paying attention to junkie thinking, some things just need to be done. Straight Noping HAS to be one of them.       *So, somehow you feel like you don't care anymore. Maybe it's the depression, anxiety, or just some sh☆tty situation. Let me tell you this: you do care and you definitely give a lot about it. You used to think you didn't care, because it was easier﻿ a﻿nd less vulnerable. Back then, it was your only way to survive. But now things are different, you have changed. Be honest with yourself and listen to the soft voices. They want to be heard. They will help you continue this journey﻿.*Edited September 18, 2018 by My life, my recovery
Hey My Life.... 3 more sleeps and you have been quit for one month... I have a lovely little woohoo thread planned for you so regardless of all the silly thoughts you might get you are the one in control.. you can do this... take the control back one crave at a time.... and if you need to yell and scream in Dutch go for it, if we want to know what it says there is always google translate and that could make for some really funny mistakes.  You've got this my Northern mate.
2 hours ago, My life, my recovery said:             This﻿﻿ was my note to self, in the pre-respond SOS topic. I know I ﻿am going to need it today. I asked a few people around me﻿﻿ ﻿if they will support me just that little bit of extra today.﻿﻿     Great to see you preparing for the more difficult days. It shows how much this means to you. Stick with it because these are the days that truly make or break a quit. One god awful cigarette and it takes an age to try again.        Shout if there is any way in which we can help. You have this.
@notsmokinjo and @Sslip bedankt voor jullie steun. Zulke toffe lui hier hè. Heel waardevol.     Het gaat redelijk. Het is een geruststelling dat ik me vandaag van mezelf alleen hoef vast te houden  aan NOPE. Als ik het eind van de dag maar haal, dan is het goed. 
Hold on tight to your quit My Life! You have worked so hard to get were you are now and you should be proud of that. You are at 4 weeks now and yes, the early quit symptoms are still with you but not for much longer as you are already starting to see improvements in those and having some better days. Remember, quitting is a process and does not happen overnight or suddenly but very slowly. You are making good progress but sometimes it's hard to tell. Stay close to this place too because we all understand exactly what you are going through and the feelings you have as you continue on your quit journey.        Your addiction knows it's in trouble now. You have starved it for 4 weeks! It's getting desperate now and will try to lure you back in weak moments. Don't listen to it! Continue on with your quit. You are winning the war against smoking
    Upwards and onwards  ML.... You've, got that nico monster shaking in his boots !!!  He knows he's in trouble....wow !!..nearly a month....great stuff !!!
    Days like this are why we practice NOPE!! I'm sorry you're having one of those days but, lool at you, asking for help!! Asking for help takes more strength than pulling alone. I'm sending you strength and extra glitter today! ((MLMR))
5 hours ago, My life, my recovery said: @notsmokinjo and @Sslip bedankt voor jullie steun. Zulke toffe lui hier hè. Heel waardevol.                     Het gaat redelijk. Het is een geruststelling dat ik me vandaag van mezelf alleen hoef vast te houden  aan NOPE. Als ik het eind van de dag maar haal, dan is het goed.                      Ik hoop dat je dag beter was dan je had verwacht. Drink uit de bodemloze beker van NOPE !
    Drink Deep From The Bottomless Cup of NOPE  Drink diep uit de bodemloze kop van NOPE
@notsmokinjo yes, almost one month. I am in control I am in control I am in control. Reminds me of oeuf du fromage, on repeat at night, to learn french. My own little woohoo thread,  yeah!!!@Sslip I guess you are right. These are the days that count double .. Had I smoked today, I would not have tried for another 7 decades or so. I should be proud. I'm sure proudness for overcoming this day will sink in soon.@reciprocity I am holding tight. Noping and reaching out was what got me through. And ... laughing about this whole circus. Man oh man... it sure is something.@Doreensfree upwards and onwards it is. I really like your catchy oneliners! @c9jane29 yes. I guess these days are great for learning new skills. I received the glitter and accidentely spoiled some on someone annoying today. I think you don't mind. @Sazerac mijn dag was beter dan ik had gedacht. Ik ben nu wel heel moe en nog een beetje verdwaasd maar dat is ok. Je praat goed Nederlands !
    Ik ben blij dat je dag beter was dan verwacht.  Het spijt me te moeten zeggen dat ik geen Nederlands spreek. Ik gebruik Google Translator en hoop op het beste
        Just now, Sazerac said:             Ik ben blij dat je dag beter was dan verwacht.                  Het spijt me te moeten zeggen dat ik geen Nederlands spreek. Ik gebruik Google Translator en hoop op het beste              Your mother!!!
2 minutes ago, StewieTech said:                                 Your mother!!!              Eu estou usando o Google Tradutor e disse,      Que bom que seu dia foi melhor que o esperado.  Beba profundamente a partir do copo de NOPE
6 minutes ago, StewieTech said:                                 Your mother!!!          You are SO dutch.
I expect my junkie thinking to roar for the next nine days. Thing is: I'll be flying Spain-wards. 28°C (82.400°F), blue sky, no complaints.         One thing that stands out for me in this proces: the more I expect and thus prepare for triggers, the steadier I get through. I know the thoughts by now that cause uproar and I am pretty strong in countering them.       I suspect that I already practiced with at least half of the triggers I will come across.. (One of them is wine, ha!). Had tapas last week, my man vapes, lots of people smoke but that's also the case where I work and I've had smokeless drinks in the sun. So, nothing new there. Smoking is not romantic, does not enhance cozy get togethers, does definitely NOT make you more relaxed. And remember, when everything else fails: You DO care. A lot. Just NOPE your'e way through the moment and you'll be absolutely fine. Putting time between me and my last cigarette (forgive me if quoting wrongly, like it like this anyway).        Now I come to think of it... there's truly not that much to be scared of. I sort of already did everything that would wake junkie thinking, except for that it wasn't in Spain. And that I haven't been waiting for planes in the last 4 weeks.     Ok, so.. that's that. Gonna stay as close to the board as possible. And rant and SOS when I need it. And post a funny stickpic now and then.        Bye!             Edited September 20, 2018 by My life, my recovery
    Hey MyLife, I headed on holiday around six or seven weeks after I first quit. It was also the first time I had a drink post quit. The plane journey was a joy in all honesty. The unbelievable panic before check in that led to chain smoking wasn't there. I was much more relaxed as the flight progressed as the intensity of the enforced abstinence wasn't there.         In any case the holiday is a great reward for your success so far. Have a fantastic time. 
    My life, You'll enjoy your trip as a non-smoker.  Have fun and stay strong.
    Hey,  M'life,   You don't smoke anymore !   Have a nice warm time in The Sun !
    Have a great smoke free time in Spain my life, I'm looking forward to hearing how nice it was not to run off the plane to light up! 
    I packed you extra supplies!!       Have fun MLMR!
    It's beautiful here. So nice to walk these steep streets without grasping for air and coughing all the time!        Woke up early this morning,  sat a while outside. It was still pirch dark and quiet. It bugged me that all I could think of was a smoke, while I'm in this beautiful village, on a roof, under the stars ...  all the more reason to go on today and to  solidify my quit.  
    Het kan frustrerend zijn als je die drang krijgt om altijd te roken of er iets over te zeggen. Maar onder de sterren op dat dak in Spanje heb je jezelf iets bijzonders geleerd ... gewoon omdat alles waar je aan denkt het rookt, betekent niet dat je moet roken, en dat deed je niet. Dat is een connectie in je hersenscheid, nooit om je te irriteren om opnieuw te roken. Goed gedaan, geniet van de rest van uw rookvrije vakantie.
    It is beautiful there.  Love the flowers.  Enjoy your holiday and your quit!
    Looks fabulous there  Thoughts of smoking may still come to you but you are also realizing there are so many great benefits to being a non-smoker while on holiday. As those benefits multiply it gives you even more reason to stay quit forever.
    Remember you are a beautiful smoke free woman.
    I hope you are feeling better today!!
5 hours ago, c9jane29 said:                                 I hope you are feeling better today!!           I am feeling better. Right now I need to do it almost hour by hour, just like in the beginning... but thats ok, if that's what it takes for now.
Twelve hours away from being smokefree  for 5 weeks  and very proud I got through the past days. Although smoking was not an option, it cost me something! Pfiew. I think I am starting to get some enjoyment back. I was afraid depression was knocking  on the door,  an old but not so friendly acquaintance. But now I think, it was merely the Great Fog playing tricks in an environment where I thought I HAD to feel good and happy etc. That made me afraid et voila... I panicked. So glad I can see that now.        Imagine: a Spanish village, pensionado's (the arty, freaky weirdo type, so friendly and open minded, impressive life stories). But like I said before... they ALL smoke. There's smoke and vape and marihuana surrounding me constantly,  it's absurd really.       Nature here is so beautiful, the Alpujarras in the Sierra Nevada, the old town of Grenada with a beautiful view on the Alhambra, beautiful beaches, sunsets in the mountains and driving offroad because navigation scr*wed up, goats on the road, gorges...        [Scenery right now: I am in bed, typing this. I hear our host and el novio  talking, about addiction to mobile phones, drugs etc. Meanwhile, I see clouds of smoke and vape passing by and I think to myself ... 'ha! You guys... know nothing! I am the real hero here!' ]     Heard this song yesterday while driving through this magnificent landscape. Suddenly had this very strong sense of 'I am doing this!!!' There's no trying, no 'what if...' no, this is it! And it's perfectly ok to do this my own way, because so far it works!!        Starry starry night
    Yes! You are the hero.      By the way love starry starry night. I remember what you mean about the feeling of depression, but the joy we feel when we are free of the addiction seems  purer, not tainted by a nicotine fix. It is just somehow better.        Sounds like a beautiful place. Enjoy it and great work. 
    Sounds to me like you did rise above the challenge.   Great job.  Be proud of yourself!
5 weeks!! Feeling good? Feeling NOPE? It's okay if you feel SNOT too (Smoking is Not an Option Today)...just whatever works     Congrats to you today! Remember your reward!
Yesterday, el novio and I were having a beer in Sevilla after having walked all day. It was hot and I was tired ... but not from smoking and a tight chest!  It is such a difference, I am feeling much better physically. I think I am starting to 'ground' a bit. Sometimes 2 or 3 hours pass, without one single thought of smoking.  I am somewhat more at peace, between the difficult moments. And breathing freely is sooo good! This morning I had a little heart attack though. I was looking for something in my bag pack,  checked a little pocket and grabbed something that felt exactly like a pack of cigs. For one second I freaked out, but then I realised what it was and immediately thought,  'and so what, if it were cigs?'  Yeah
    Congratulations My Life... sounds like your having a great holiday. Its also great that you are finding that KTQ is getting easier.  
    M'life, Everyday is a brand new day and you don't smoke.    It is great to see you accumulating your strength.  s
Having a little halleluja moment here!  Came home from Spain, glad to be back. I started unpacking,  doing laundry, groceries, cat cuddling and then suddenly I realised I didn't think of smoking at all and above that, I was very straightforward in eh, dealing with what should be done after vacation! Usually it takes me at least an hour to land so to speak and to get started. What a great feeling Edited September 30, 2018 by My life, my recovery
    Welcome home my life and massive well done getting through your first holiday smoke free! That is a biggie and you should be immensely proud of yourself!! Good for you! 
    High Five !!!! ML...    It's a great feeling...when you click...your brain has disconnected  itself from the nico monster...no matter how long ...it's still a wonderful moment ...
    You faced your challenges with grace and fortitude, M'life.     Please reward yourself, you have a whole lot to celebrate !
    Congratulations!!!!
    It's such a great feeling when you suddenly realize just how much positive progress you've made in battling this addiction and setting yourself free   Great Job and congrats!   
    And, your home doesn't smell of stale smoke from the clothes being unpacked!    Welcome home! Bubble bath, feet up, get a wine glass(beer? Milk? Carrot juice?) in your hand; you earned it!
11 hours ago, c9jane29 said:                And, your home doesn't smell of stale smoke from the clothes being unpacked!                    Welcome home! Bubble bath, feet up, get a wine glass(beer? Milk? Carrot juice?) in your hand; you earned it!            Exactly! Instead they just smelled of a mixture of stale garlic and sunblock ...    I drank tea as reward. Have seen a bit too many delicious Spanish wines lately. But seriously, I was só happy ...!! It's like my mental energy is starting to catch up with my physical  vitality. Yeah!!           15 hours ago, Parsley said:             Congratulations!!!!         Thanks  You are also doing an awesome job yourself!         11 hours ago, reciprocity said:             It's such a great feeling when you suddenly realize just how much positive progress you've made in battling this addiction and setting yourself free   Great Job and congrats!                      It is! Sometimes it just overflows me ... it's a tingeling, happy, proud and zen feeling at the same time. I am thankfull this is already happening so early in my quit. I do feel my excessive writing and reading and learning of the first three to four weeks are starting to pay off. And... what a contrast to 8 days ago, when I SOS-ed!         16 hours ago, Sazerac said:             You faced your challenges with grace and fortitude, M'life.                                     Please reward yourself, you have a whole lot to celebrate !         Thanks. We both know what we talk about here. THANKS, for being there and for providing such essential information!!            17 hours ago, Doreensfree said:             High Five !!!! ML...                    It's a great feeling...when you click...your brain has disconnected  itself from the nico monster...no matter how long ...it's still a wonderful moment ...         Yes, exactly that, a wonderful moment. High five back at ya!        18 hours ago, WeegieWoman said:             Welcome home my life and massive well done getting through your first holiday smoke free! That is a biggie and you should be immensely proud of yourself!! Good for you!            Yay, thanks!Edited October 1, 2018 by My life, my recovery
    Awesome, My Life.  You're doing so great.   You faced the challenges, shared your experience here and are a few successful weeks into your quit.        Great to see your journey.  Stay strong.     
    Bliss has come to a temporarily end...  bleghh. Apparantly someone hit my car last night, thank god they left a note and number. Quite some damage. Didn't manage to get rid of the mood all day during work and I had serveral thoughts of smoking. Ofcourse I did not act on them, but a nagging voice followed me through the whole day. I have this basic junkie thinking of 'I need to consume/smoke/whatever'. Or, 'Something is not right and there has to be done something about it'. And that being said, I really DON'T WANT TO SMOKE, I just really don't!! It's more about not being able to deal with what is. And at the same time I am dealing with what is, but it has to be better, stronger, more productive, less whining, just do it etc.      A BIG FAT BLEGHHHHH!     
    Sorry about your car my life  Just try to focus on the positives. They left a note, that's HUGE! You didn't smoke, that's even more HUGE! Your car will be fixed just as well as your body is being fixed by quitting. 
    I know you are right @jillar. No casualties, they left a note, good insurance system. And it will be fixed. And there are many many many things worse than this. And all these words don't change sh*t about the junkie thinking right now. Gotta buckle up, grrrrrrrrr.  
    Two hours later and calmth has somewhat returned. Took a cold-warm-cold-warm shower and made tea. And searched for weird crochet projects to start (among inspiration: https://croshame.com).       I hear people talk about this Nicodemon a lot. Thought, maybe the little fella would like to be personified,  since so many people speak of him as a real thing (note: definitely don't want to do this myself. I am a firm believer of outsmarting addiction instead of 'batteling some non-existent being').      Anyway. Now I am googling images of demons and cigarettes, in order to start a new design.      I think this one is cute:    
    'Let me be clear. Smoking is the number one cause of lung cancer. Everyone knows that fact. Does everyone know the number two cause of lung cancer? Is it common knowledge that lung cancer among never smokers kills more Americans than AIDS, drunk driving, drownings or home fires? Even though many lifestyle factors contribute to other diseases, what kind of person would ask an AIDS patient “Are you gay?” At best, that would be insensitive. Then why do people think it is acceptable to ask lung cancer patients about their smoking history?'    https://lungcancer.net/living/stigma-kills/         
    Good post ML...
    You're right about the association most everyone make between lung cancer and smoking. Smoking is a major factor in a large number of diseases you never want to get but still people link it with lung cancer. Maybe because that link has been popularized by the media over many years and it's a scary concept people can visualize and understand. If you told someone that long term smoking could lead to Buerger's Disease, they would probably look at you with a puzzled look on their face. That's as real a possibility as lung cancer from smoking but many people just aren't aware.
Note to self:  Joel Spitzer,  letters regarding mental health issues. https://whyquit.com/joels-videos/resources-regarding-mental-health-issues/        'Don't give cigarettes the legitimacy to treat feelings. They don't. They make them worse. They in effect minimize your ability to communicate and grow. Growth may hurt, but it beats carrying on unresolved feelings that slowly may deteriorate the quality of your life.'Edited October 4, 2018 by MLMR
Yesterday I went for a beer with a good friend. This friend had quit smoking for just over 8 months. Suddenly she leaves the pub, only to return three minutes later with a pack of cigarettes. I stared at her and continued my conversation. Like a boss. Edited October 6, 2018 by MLMR
    Well done !!!!..... You saw smoking for what it is ..a horrible killer addiction...sorry your friend three away a great quit...
    Awesome MLMR!   There comes a time when it's just NOPE and that's it. My mom and sister smoke around me all the time. My sister STILL offers me a "drag". NOPE (and for the record, sister, smoking IS a drag.)
    Almost high on oxygen this morning, biked for two hours and my lungs were having a party! I also notice my heart isn't ticking like a madman during exercise and the amount of extra energy is amazing.         'You look less stressed than usual, I can see it in your face', someone said to me the other day. Uhh, say again...?! I like that!!         Regarding moodswings, I decided it is what it is for now. I think my worries about them are actually of heavier weight than the blues itself.                
    Sounds like you had a much deserved good day MLMR. Love your positive attitude 
    Your story is so encouraging, M'life, and it is a real joy to see you develop your strengths.  You have great power and will learn every day how to use it.
7 weeks in! And boy,  how I not miss to...  * put on my jacket and smell hints of smoke     * hear myself squeeking during the night,  annoyed but mostly worried   * check for smoking gear whenever I go somewhere else   * have this internal debate whether or not to go for a smoke when I'm with nonsmokers   * be silently worried about my health, ALL THE TIME * judge myself for smoking, at least 27 out of 28 times a day (the day starter was the exception). I don't miss that one by the way, honestly. But had you told me that 6 weeks ago... would not have bought that from you! Edited October 9, 2018 by MLMR
    At seven weeks you have lived smoke free through a slew of craves and triggers and succeeded at every turn. You are building yourself a very fine quit, indeed.
    You are doing exceptionally well MLMR. I'm proud of the commitment you have given to this and the support you give to all those following by detailing the journey. You may be surprised, but it keeps getting better as you progress. Keep up the good work. 
    You're doing awesome, Supergirl ML!     Great to see your positive posts.  I can so relate to the smell of smoke on jackets and the little squeaking at night.  Isn't it nice to be able to go biking and feel good about the workout the lungs get?        Stay strong!
You are doing great, MLMR!  Thanks for sharing your experiences with us and keep up the awesome work!Edited October 10, 2018 by johnny5
Whoa ...    Right now I couldnt be more happy about the work i've done in the early stages, in identifying triggers and understanding their impact.         Started with the SAD lamp this morning,  third year in a row. Made myself a nice coffee and had some papers ready, to prepare for today. So I am sitting behind this absurdly bright light and suddenly this intense crave hits me... omg!!! In a flash I see myself lighting up, immediately having that 'Ahhhhh'moment, so at first I'm all 'wtf is this, where does this come from, oh nooo'. Panick in the disco, 'Will this ever st....'       And then it dawns on me. The lamp is HEAVILY connected with morning smoking rituals. Waking up, coffee, lamp, one or two cigarettes (the only ones during all seasons I allowed myself to smoke IN the house,  as to ease and boost myself for REALLY doing this lamp thing, waddajamean fvcking up my reward system), and I kidd you not, the crave eases out the second I understand  the connection. Knowing this intens 'wanting' is nothing more than a brainfart, a result of programming. Knowing that here and now, in this moment, I cut yet another tie with this darned addiction!       Have a good day!  Edited October 10, 2018 by MLMR
    You are doing great MLMR 
*Sigh*. Work to do. Is this a crave or just fearing a crave and thereby inducing it?        My alarmclock wakes me up and I know, light therapy time. BAMMM, almost húngry for a cigarette. Immediately. Though I haven't had morning craves in at least 4 weeks, apart from the strong one that I had yesterday. Doesn't make sense. So could it be that the intense crave I had yesterday, regarding that lamp, somehow linguered and showed up this morning again? Just because I am not totally there yet, in this particular situation?        Actually, I think I know. This was not a crave. This probably was a thought right after waking up (or I could have been dreaming about craves/fears/lamps, whatever!), the thought may have frightened me and voila, thinking/fearing mess with me and I experience something like a craving. Hmmmmmm.      The good thing is, by now I have analysed this thing to death, so it's lost all its allure.         Over-thinkers anonymous: 'Then, 18 years ago, I had a moment of clarity. Ever since, I've been working the program, hoping for another one'. Edited October 11, 2018 by MLMR
    MLMR there is a thread somewhere about how nearly became phobic of the sewing machine... because I associated it with some bad craves from the first week of my quit... and up there in your last post you just laid it bare... it was more the anticipation of a crave and having to deal with it than an actual crave... it was the nicotine using fear to try and sway us. Tiring work all that over analysis but it makes us who we are... you my dear are so rocking this quit... congratulations for making the connections between triggers and snipping those ties. This thread of yours is going to save someones life one day, if it hasn't already... what a brilliant read and guide for someone coming behind you or for someone who needs that final push that they too can be free.
    Seriously, today was one of the best days in weeks, quit-wise. Only had a few mild thoughts about it and immediately and easily replaced them.          So, what's new since I quit?        * I have an infinite amount of extra time. At first I was awkward with that, because what to do and where to go.. ? But by now, in the morning I use the extra minutes to snooze longer, take more time (and with that, ease) for groceries, my kisses last longer and i spent many, many, MANY minutes online reading stuff about chopsticks.  * My constant and ever present stress is gone!! Where-to-how-to-not-too-long-I-want-but-can't-I'm-broke-it's-bad-I-need-need-need-need-need-it-now.     * at work, I use the extra time to prep whatever it is I have to do. Whether it's seeing a client or attending a meeting, I take four to five minutes to breath and be ok with whatever is presenting itself.   * I suddenly have money! Nicely piling up, waiting to be spend on a piano.      I am nearing the two-months mark. And I am proud!    
    Love this !!!!!......
4 hours ago, MLMR said:             i﻿ spent ﻿many, many, MANY minutes online reading stuff about﻿ chopsticks. ﻿I have lots of time to research pogo sticks...
    Awesome, MLMR!  You're doing so well.
    You should be rightly proud and thrilled you had such a good day. Those days feel so great after the early effort you have put in don't they? 
18 hours ago, MLMR said:                Seriously, today was one of the best days in weeks, quit-wise. Only had a few mild thoughts about it and immediately and easily replaced them.                                          So, what's new since I quit?                                        * I have an infinite amount of extra time. At first I was awkward with that, because what to do and where to go.. ? But by now, in the morning I use the extra minutes to snooze longer, take more time (and with that, ease) for groceries, my kisses last longer and i spent many, many, MANY minutes online reading stuff about chopsticks.                  * My constant and ever present stress is gone!! Where-to-how-to-not-too-long-I-want-but-can't-I'm-broke-it's-bad-I-need-need-need-need-need-it-now.                     * at work, I use the extra time to prep whatever it is I have to do. Whether it's seeing a client or attending a meeting, I take four to five minutes to breath and be ok with whatever is presenting itself.                   * I suddenly have money! Nicely piling up, waiting to be spend on a piano.                                      I am nearing the two-months mark. And I am proud!                               This is Great M'Life.   More Proud, Thrilled, Happy for you to come !
Context: work.  Sitting in my car. Thinking about today. Am I satisfied? Not at all. Was it worth my time? Nope. Did we come to some mutual understanding, something fundamental, something that makes us  a serious party to take in account?  I seriously doubt that. Contemplating everything that has been said during the meeting. It is not ok. This is not how we planned it. And I saw it coming and shared my worries long ago, for nothing.       And then suddenly I have this anger coming up, al the way from my toes crawling up, it’s hot, it’s swirling. I am mad as hell. And it’s crystal clear rage. Not blinded, not tempered, my heart beating like crazy but for a very genuine reason and I just let it beat like that. My hands are glued to my steeringwheel, I’m surprised the thing doesn’t melt in my hot hands.    I’ve not felt such anger in ages. In the background the radio is having a party with Ravel and his Bolero, reaching a climax.  I seriously did not have a part in that. Pure coincidence.   Not once does smoking cross my mind. Somehow I’m able to experience this rage in all it’s rawness, it’s beauty even.        And when the final notes die away, my heart is beating slower, I loosen my grip. My breathing is back to normal, maybe even a bit deeper than normal. Let's go home and may tomorrow take care of it.   Man, do I like quitting and feeling everything that I’m supposed to feel right now.  Edited October 18, 2018 by MLMR
    Wow!  Do you understand what happened.  Perhaps, as smokers, we get used to managing our emotions by smoking and now the emotions really have a chance to express themselves?   In any case, you're doing really well.  Stay Strong, ML.
2 hours ago, MLMR said:             Somehow﻿ I’m ﻿able to experience this rage in all it’s rawness, it’s beauty even.﻿﻿             2 hours ago, MLMR said:                             Man﻿, do I like quitting and feeling everything that I’m supposed﻿ to feel right now.                                                                           I could hug you right now!! Yes!! Embrace! The! Quit!!!!Edited October 18, 2018 by c9jane29
3 hours ago, d2e8b8 said:               Wow!  Do you understand what happened.                  Perhaps, as smokers, we get used to managing our emotions by smoking and now the emotions really have a chance to express themselves?                   In any case, you're doing really well.  Stay Strong, ML.                No 'perhaps' about it d2e8b8'   I would hide all my emotions behind a cloud of smoke.   When they first emerged as a nicotine free person, I was v. surprised and had to learn again how to FEEL.       great post as always, M'life.  Thank you.Edited October 18, 2018 by Sazerac
6 hours ago, d2e8b8 said:               Wow!  Do you understand what happened.          Yep, I certainly do! And the best part was, I had a flashback, was thinking of so many moments when I actually got angry, but managed to dull it away with smoking. In other words, saying to myself: It's NOT ok to have this emotion, it must go away.            6 hours ago, c9jane29 said:             I could hug you right now!!                 Yes!! Embrace! The! Quit!!!!            Yeah!!          2 hours ago, Sazerac said:              I would hide all my emotions behind a cloud of smoke.                   When they first emerged as a nicotine free person, I was v. surprised and had to learn again how to FEEL.           That's right.       It hit me.. Djeez. Ofcourse I knew it was about nicotine and giving myself a false sense of consolation, ease.  But I never thought of the fact that smoking in these particular situations, while being sad, angry, bored, etc. is a repetetive way of telling myself that it's not ok to feel the way I do.       I am actually a bit bewildered now
Nothing to do on a saturday evening. Friends doing things without me, Mr. Man is having Stick's Night. Cat is having a ball with a fake mouse and the dishes are done. There's a cake in the oven but I have to be patient a little longer. God. Bourgeois.         Dead silence.       I could go for a walk. Maybe do some closet organizing?  Hmm.   Haven't seen my neighbours in ages, I might check if theyr'e still alive. Now I come to think of it, why arent they checking on me? Ok, forget it.  I don't like them anyway.       I think of all the boring moments in the past. Smoking seemed the right thing to do. Strange, how it often kept me from ... well, doing things. Was I really bored and smoking? Or did smoking make me believe not caring much for other things was ok...and did I maybe even create boredom  to justify smoking?       It's amazing to rediscover myself as a pretty pro-active person. I want to get things done, not much 'sit-there-wait-and-see' left. It started out during the first weeks as distraction, keeping my mind off smoking. But now, unplanned,  it's gradually becoming the new normal somehow and I really really like that!  No more 'oh let's smoke one first'!      ('Beautiful. Ok. Done? Good. Now let's have a sm...'). <-- nothing wrong there. Fart of the brain. No need to get uptight and all. This is the plan: tea and cake, evening walk, ring the neighbours bell and run away real quick, shower, sleep. Edited October 20, 2018 by MLMR
    Love it MLMR!  
1 hour ago, MLMR said:              This﻿ is the ﻿plan: tea and cake, evening walk, ring the neighbours bell and run away real quick, shower, sleep. ﻿  Sounds like a plan!!
    It was great learning the new me after quitting smoking.    Taking breaks, sitting on my back stoop and breathing in deep delicious breaths of oxygen.  Oxygen became my new drug.      Learning how to be still.  Learning how to reward myself.   Learning to experience reality without the veil of smoke.   Learning how to be bored....which mostly leads to a creative outlet or beautiful sleep or marvelous day dreams.     You will love your new you, M'life.  
6 hours ago, MLMR said:             I think of all the boring moments in the past. Smoking seemed the right thing to do. Strange, how it often kept me from ... well, doing things. Was I really bored and smoking? Or did smoking make me believe not caring much for other things was ok...and did I maybe even create boredom  to justify smoking?           Wow, this is exactly how I felt.  The longer I smoked the more I started to lose interest in things that I used to love.  I loved crafting or painting and redecorating a room.  I loved gardening. This past year all that seemed to change.  As I start to live my smoke free life, I hope to rediscover these joys again.
    It's so time consuming to be a smoker...all that planning...Where ?  when ? Have I got enough !!!!.....yada yada....
18 hours ago, Linda Thomas said:                Wow, this is exactly how I felt.  The longer I smoked the more I started to lose interest in things that I used to love.  I loved crafting or painting and redecorating a room.  I loved gardening.                 This past year all that seemed to change.  As I start to live my smoke free life, I hope to rediscover these joys again.            OK that's fantastic! Works well for me too because I have a bunch or rooms that need redecorating and the garden's a mess too. When can I expect you
So ... since eating cigarettes isn't exactly the right thing to celebrate a 2month quit with, I'll be once again having a hard look at some things. I challenged myself to think of at least 3 new found improvements.  Here goes.  1. No more butts everywhere at my Villa Balconya. Just clean concrete. Very cozy.  <- read that one somewhere, by the way. Haven't been to Balconya like forever, so how would I know. I just assume. Unless my unkind neighbours emptied their ashtray on my tiny outside space.   2...uhm...  3...ehhhh...    (Junkie thinking: *screw improvements. You know you miss me*. No. I don't miss you and for the record, 'you' don't even exist. 'You' are just pattern in my brain that I'm about to destroy for good.  What does exist is my body, my health,  my family, my surroundings and especially my ... *oh, just quit your righteous do-good talk. Who cares anyway, who are you kidding!* Ok brain pattern, you know what? Drop dead! The fact that I have 2 months under my belt and I would like to light an entire pack, does not jeopardize my quit as long as I don't light up. Early night, goodbye world! Tomorrow it's  us again.)    Aaaaaarghhh! NOPE!!! Nope nope nope nope noperdenope!!   Edited October 22, 2018 by MLMR
    Our brains are our worst enemies....    That nico monster is tap tapping on your shoulder...Hey remember me.....    He knows he's in trouble...your killing him day by day...your get stronger day by day....   Keep telling him to naff off....NOPE !!!!!
11 minutes ago, Doreensfree said:               Our brains are our worst enemies....                    That nico monster is tap tapping on your shoulder...Hey remember me.....                    He knows he's in trouble...your killing him day by day...your get stronger day by day....                   Keep telling him to naff off....NOPE !!!!!          Well goodluck to him stickin' his trouble up there were the sun don't shine!! Starting to grow tired of this nagging little voice, sneaking up on me when I least expect. Bweh.
    It gets weaker and weaker the longer you just keep saying NOPE!  
    Your two month celebration may have reminded your addict that times have changed, you don't smoke.  Glad you powered through, M'life.  Awfully glad, I am.
I'll tell you a secret; my junkie brain tried a few times last week to get me to buy weed. I sat around for almost a whole day wondering who I knew that I could call. It went as far as trying to figure out if I could get to Colorado(where it's legal) and back while the kids were in school.  or could my mom pick them up? I haven't smoked weed in a good 10 years and bringing any back would be a felony...junkie brain at it's best. It caught me by suprise; I'm glad that I'm secure enough that I could laugh at myself during it, but a 10year old memory totally halted my life.    It reminds me to never drop my guard, always stay vigilant.     Resolve forged in fire can not be broken!       Sending strength of mind and heart your way
Thanks for sharing that @c9jane29. I want to introduce you to Weedie! I created him a few years ago, as an ode to this  anxiety relieving Plant (well, that's what it did for me at least)          Nowadays smoking him is just a memory. But I can relate to what you said really well.. like you said, junkie brain at it's best.        Resolve forged in fire. I like that image.   @jillar awfully simple but yes. Keep noping and itll be alright. And @SazeracI  am also glad. I have a little trouble with digesting the annoying construct of NOT wanting to smoke and still having these thoughts. Ahhhh hear me talking. Thats the junkie. Classic. It is what it is. Accept it for now.        And so it goes...    Edited October 22, 2018 by MLMR
    ^^ That is frickin awesome. I love Weedy.       So we all no I haven't exactly been snow white... and every now an then, even more than a decade clean... I'll be at a party or a gig or something and a little voice will say... gee a line/pill would be nice now.... and for a tiny nano second I think of who I could call to score and then its gone... but it still happens.... probably always will.
5 hours ago, MLMR said:             . I want﻿﻿ to introduce you to Weedie!          Hi weedy!! You look delicious  I like that she's a bud...idk why everything always has the leaf on it like that's the good part.
@notsmokinjo thanks, ha! Weedie is one of my favorite projects. Yarn, sugar and hairspray. Feels as sticky as the real thing.    @c9jane29 uh yes, the bud is what counts  By the way,  I think in the end there will be no leaves left at all.... theyr'e overdeveloping some species to supermegaultra strong proportions, knockout weed.
    Bloody GM Weed.... is nothing sacred???? 
5 minutes ago, notsmokinjo said:                Bloody GM Weed.... is nothing sacred????    Nope. As sad as it is. Monsanto-Bayer /big pharma, yay.
ML, I like Weedy!  You're doing so well.  2 months already, eh.
Oh gawd. Shaking about what just happened. Was going to buy some breakfast before work, at a place I usualy try to avoid. Its where I grew up. Poured coffee in the supermarket, got what I needed and payed. Once outside a giant melancholy came over me. Saw the crappy station where I hung out as a teen (rollin' / smoking cigs), and the sad grey buildings. I swear it was like someone opened a bottle of memories and emptied it on me. Im not sure whether it was a smell or simply being at that place that  activated this but the result is  here I am, typing this on my phone in the car sobbing about god knows what kind of child memory stuff. And I really need to go to work now and get my act together.      The joys of quitting ...         Edited October 25, 2018 by MLMR
Oh gee I'm handing out the kanga cuddles today .... here is a pick me up hug from me to you...          I totally understand what you are saying. A lot of stuff from my childhood and past that I thought I had dealt with emotionally has re-surfaced during my quit... I think the smoking suppressed a lot of emotions over the years. I have also noticed many of us go through a catharsis when we quit, we learn to love and believe in ourselves again and part of that awakening involves dealing with the buried things, especially from childhood. Look at our dear friend @Linda Thomas and the evolution she has made, who would even recognise her as the woman from her first posts. Quitting is empowering, but the transition has some bumps and curves you need to face before moving on. But like everything quit related there are good days and there are tough days. So as my dear Grandma would say... "You have 5 minutes, cry it out until your all snotty, then wipe your eyes, blow your nose and pull your socks up. You have school now, its a responsibility, after school you need to cry some more you have all night."..... so tidy up that make up chooky, blow your nose and take 3 big, huge breaths (cos you can do that now you don't smoke). But don't forget about it or ignore it, just shelve it until after work.    So it must have been the day for crying jags in the car... I drove to town I grew up in (Yes I know its more than local like I am allowed but I needed to for an appointment and I just wasn't going to make them all today if I didn't cheat)... anyway since we sold my Grandma's house I have never been back, but today I did and the new owners have changed it so much... it was awful... sure the house looked cute and cottagy but it wasn't my Grandma's house anymore... massively, structurally different.... sat there and bawled my eyes out... then had to drive past my parents old house, the one my Great Great Grandad built and it was all changed and horrible too and I felt saddnes but not like my Grandmas. So I get you, it a horrible feeling when those repressed feelings fly up and hit us. But its good too, it strengthen's our quit and it strengthens us and it lets us grow into the people we were meant to be.
3 hours ago, MLMR said:             Saw﻿ the crappy station where I hung out as a teen (rollin' / smoking cigs), and the sad grey ﻿buildings﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿   Oh, high school...I wore JNCO's and Marilyn Manson shirts with black nail polish in high school so I only cry when I see pictures from back then    I want to hug you and kick you in your butt at the same time....I definitely do not want you to go to a sad place. There is nothing good there.     Crying is healthy, it gets things out before the emotions bottle explodes.  Cry happy tears that you are taking back control, happy tears that you are strong, beautiful woman that never stops learning and growing (and I'm not talking waist lines here).    This is the beauty of not smoking things away! You get to be full on in these emotions and really savor them and learn to be okay with them.    You have shown all of us your determination so tell junkie brain to take a vacation cuz MLMR has better things to do than mourn the death of...death.   Bob Ross, baby...I'm telling you...this guy is on to something
    Oh... off topic here but had to tell you Weedy is going straight to the QT Art Gallery... I will invite you with a shout out to his grand opening.
@notsmokinjo ahhhwwww, that kanga! Think you can send  me one as a playmate for my kitty? Or would that be illegal? It was so strange, I really was 14, 15 again for a brief moment.  I saw myself acting all tough girl, anti-everything, 'I don't need anyone!'. But I did need someone and I wasn't tough, back then. It helped to write it down, it certainly got me drying my tears, take a deep breath and move along. I like what your dear  Grandma said to you and I took her advise and shelved it for after work.    So, anyway,  @c9jane29 the fashion you describe is indeed to cry over!      I wore my aunts 70's pants and dyed my hair henna red, for over ten years. Heavy black eyeshade, oh how cool and untouchable I was!     I promiss you I won't dwell. Got some happy crying to do, you are right!    And by the way, talkin about fashion...and talkin about cryin....    do you think this guy implies he's Megadongs nephew?Edited October 25, 2018 by MLMR
5 minutes ago, MLMR said:                I saw myself acting all tough girl, anti-everything, 'I don't need anyone!'. But I did need someone and I wasn't tough, back then.             You and me both. I'm not sure about roos in Holland might be a bit chilly for the poor little bugger. They do play well with cats though.
5 minutes ago, MLMR said:               do﻿ you think this guy implies he's Megadongs nephew﻿?       it either that, or he needs his diaper changed ASAP!
OK teen fashion for me... depended on my mood but basically one of 3 looks... jeans and a surf brand t-shirt with blunny boots.... jeans an band t-shirt under an open flannelette t-shirt with the thick black eyeliner etc and either black dessert boot rollers or docs... or some remnant from the hippy era to go with my hair in two plaits past my waist (until I chopped it boy short cos I had a fight with my dad and that's what you do) and a selection of crazy home made crochet hats and whatever shoes I felt like.... no wait I rocked a 4th look... jeans, white t-shirt, blazer.... I would just pick the look to match my mood... I too hate photos from my teen years... and there are very few.
Memories come up in real life, apart from smoking or not smoking.   Many memories were masked with smoke and may be more accessible and vivid now   but, you know how to look at them, accept them and release them if they are not useful to you.  Crying is a lubricant to letting them go, washing them away.    Our eyes need watering, they need tears to grow.        I was the 'super hip all grown up child chick' hanging out with pimps and whores, musicians and drug dealers, thugs and mugs.   Of course I had a smoke dangling from my lips or behind my ear.  In such a hurry to grow up, it is a miracle I survived.    The outfits were v. cool though.  Micro minis and Courreges' go-go boots or granny dresses  and sandals or Levi 501's, chukka boots and a see through top.
1 hour ago, Sazerac said:               Many memories were masked with smoke and may be more accessible and vivid now                   but, you know how to look at them, accept them and release them if they are not useful to you.                  Crying is a lubricant to letting them go, washing them away.                    Our eyes need watering, they need tears to grow.﻿@Sazerac you have such a marvelous way with words.  I love how this sounds.  Am adding it to the many other pieces of wonderful advice you have posted.  They have become my special start the day quotes on my fridge.
    You sound like you're doing better already MLMR, I hope you have a nice rest of your day. You're doing awesome  
Why did you quit smoking?● less anxiety● to become more comfortable and ok with who I am• physical healthHow long did you smoke?Started at 14, quit around 28, started again three years later. After that, I entered a relapse cycle. Horrible. Smoked for a total of +/- 18 years.How long have you been smoke-free?65 daysHow long do you think it should take to be free of nicotine addiction?About a year working to be "safe", concious maintenance for the rest of my life.If you go back to smoking, will you want to quit again?YESHow long will it be before you do? Weeks...months...years? When illness strikes?I honestly have no idea. Will quitting be any easier next time around?I don't know. How do you think smoking will benefit you?Not at all.Is it worth giving up what you've worked so hard to do?No.
    I know you need some time to work on your chopstick skills...   Looking good!!  Hugs for you!!
4 hours ago, c9jane29 said:             I know you need some time to work on your chopstick skills...                   Looking good!!                  Hugs for you!!          Thanks. I can use them. Junkie thinking all over the place. Stick is actually avoiding me (he's afraid I'll kill him if I catch him vaping).     Edited October 27, 2018 by MLMR
Ooooh  stick that vape where it looks like the train is coming out of the tunnel every time he farts... Mine quit smoking 2 weeks ago and got a molar pulled last week so I have another titty baby in the house at the moment...good thing I have lots of practice
@c9jane29 thats hero material. For both of you  So cool he's coming right after you though! Lucky man, got an expert with him.
5 hours ago, c9jane29 said:             Ooooh  stick that vape where it looks like the train is coming out of the tunnel every time he farts...                 Mine quit smoking 2 weeks ago and got a molar pulled last week so I have another titty baby in the house at the moment...good thing I have lots of practice             I KNOW what the real issue is here ................................
    Hey MLMR, hopefully when your stick realizes you're done with smoking, he'll soon follow 
1 hour ago, reciprocity said:               I KNOW﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ what the﻿ ﻿real﻿ issue is ﻿here﻿﻿﻿  Ahh, luckly he was raised by 4 women so he came well trained            1 hour ago, MLMR said:              Lucky﻿ man, got an expert with him.             Ha! If you think I'm an annoying (sometimes...) quit friend over the internet...just imagine if I lived with you    I'm good for rewards thoEdited October 27, 2018 by c9jane29Edit because I be bad at english
@jillar that'd be great. He cut back on vaping already, at least when I'm around.. but it's (unfortunately ) up to him to make the decision. He is very proud that I quit again (yesterday he kept saying how happy he was about my improved breathing, he said he notices I'm more 'peaceful' in a certain way, becoming less agitated and much more aware in the moment).         Let's hope the Stick will have his own awakening some day and give up on that grown man's dummy
5 minutes ago, c9jane29 said:                                   Ha! You just think I'm an annoying quit friend over the internet...just imagine if I lived with you                     I'm good for rewards tho    I think your place is stacked with hidden glitter traps!
7 minutes ago, MLMR said:               I think your place is stacked with hidden glitter traps!            Shhhh! He'll hear you
    Yesterday I changed my ever present sneakers for heels.  I don't know how to properly walk them, never did so. But how hard can it be, compared to quitting?        (oh and, seriously, this is huge. Sneakers = safe. Heels = scary, grown up and challenging when you have  funny walk like me). Rockin' it anyway!                
    Stand very straight, tits first, chin up and walk purposefully,  like an empress.  You changed the name of this town !
21 hours ago, MLMR said:                Yesterday﻿ I ﻿changed my ever present sneakers for heels.           Sooo...how did it go? Did you sexy lady all day? No twisted ankles? Only have one boot now because you broke the other off in someone's as....nose?     I'm proud of you for going out of your comfort zone...I hope you have a fantastically self-confident kind of day!
35 minutes ago, c9jane29 said:              Sooo...how did it go? Did you sexy lady all day?            Haha, nooo!  These heels are not suitable for my job ... or, should I say, my job is not suitable for my heels?     My day was far from fantastically-self-confident-kinda!         It was sort of mediocre,  scary at one point, awkard at another, mindblowingly boring here and there,  then I went home and a sad song was on the radio and I cried for like the 50th time in one month.        Now what? Edited October 30, 2018 by MLMRUsed the same word twice and I hate that
    You'll get there MLMR, just let the tears come because they will soon be replaced with laughter and smiles  
13 minutes ago, MLMR said:              It﻿ was sort of mediocre﻿,  scary at one point, awkard﻿ at another, mindblowingly boring here and there,  then I went home and a sad song was on the radio and I cried for like ﻿the 50th time in one month.﻿                               Now what?
    Thinking of you.    Your emotions will mellow out a bit with time.  I know it may be difficult to believe us    but, we do not lie. Get a nice cool gel pack for your eyes and keep it handy in your freezer.        
    I cry every time I hear the song Everybody Hurts        You're doing great. 
1 hour ago, jillar said:                You'll get there MLMR, just let the tears come because they will soon be replaced with laughter and smiles   thanks for reassuring me.      You know, it' not just tears out of sadness. I just ... feel so 'feely' lately! And I am used to feeling A LOT, feeling EVERYTHING AT ONCE, switching from SKY HIGH to ROCK BOTTOM ... but this is different. This is genuine or something. I can have it when I look at my cat and realise what she's meant to me all these years, I have it when I realise how I missed out during all these years of depression, I cry when Im mad and when Im sad and when Im happy. Yesterday I cried during the dishes. The other night I woke up around 3 o'clock, made tea and just sat there thinking about the year my dad started sleeping at the couch. BAMM! Crying. This afternoon someone at work said something nice, also bloody fvcking made me cry. I mean, come on. Got to draw the line somewhere, right? How many allergies can one pretend ...?!              Edited October 30, 2018 by MLMR
    Colleen used to quote Robert Frost:     "The best way out is always through."       I like the saying, "You can't stop the waves, but you can learn to surf."
    Big Hugs chooky... Saz is right, it will get better... if not just get a decent thermo wetsuit and learn to surf... its heaps of fun.        
3 hours ago, MLMR said:             You know, it' not just tears out of sadness. I just ... feel so 'feely' lately! And I am used to feeling A LOT, feeling EVERYTHING AT ONCE, switching from SKY HIGH to ROCK BOTTOM﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ ... but this is different. This is genuine or something.                This is your brain waking up from all the chemicals that suppressed it over the years. It's a cleansing MLMR, let it come.....
14 hours ago, jillar said:                                  This is your brain waking up from all the chemicals that suppressed it over the years. It's a cleansing MLMR, let it come.....              I love this, Jillar.  True true true.   and yes, M'life,  after the shroud of addiction is lifted,  our true, genuine feelings emerge.
70 days completed.  It seems like 'occasional, unexpected triggers' hit hard these days and worse of all, it's like they trigger 'checked ones' as well. I was done with the mornings,  I was done with the car, long done with 'I am boring when I dont smoke'.    Top notch junkie thinking: I want a smoke, after I had a mild fever and been coughing for a week. I know. Just a pattern. Top notch junkie thinking: I want a smoke, when the day before yesterday the first real sad rainy cold set in. I know, just my brain. Top notch junkie thinking: I want a smoke, because don't you think you just deserve it and maybe that can help with shutting you up about everything you feel and writing about it all the time and concidering you and your bloody quit so darn important? So, Junkie me. Listen up. We have been here before. If I must, I'll keep debunking smoke lies for ever. We. Don't. Smoke. Anymore.  It's not some kind of joke, try out, or experiment or whatever this junkie thinking is trying to trick me in to. I won't identify with that part of addiction anymore. This quit is for real.    Edited November 1, 2018 by MLMR
10 hours ago, MLMR said:                70 days completed.          It seems like 'occasional, unexpected triggers' hit hard these days and worse of all, it's like they trigger 'checked ones' as well. I was done with the mornings,  I was done with the car, long done with 'I am boring when I dont smoke'.            Top notch junkie thinking: I want a smoke, after I had a mild fever and been coughing for a week. I know. Just a pattern. Top notch junkie thinking: I want a smoke, when the day before yesterday the first real sad rainy cold set in. I know, just my brain. Top notch junkie thinking: I want a smoke, because don't you think you just deserve it and maybe that can help with shutting you up about everything you feel and writing about it all the time and concidering you and your bloody quit so darn important?         So, Junkie me. Listen up. We have been here before. If I must, I'll keep debunking smoke lies for ever. We. Don't. Smoke. Anymore.          It's not some kind of joke, try out, or experiment or whatever this junkie thinking is trying to trick me in to. I won't identify with that part of addiction anymore. This quit is for real.                           I love your quit M'life.  Thank you for sharing it all with us.  All your writings resonate so well with all of us.  There are threads that link us all together.   We are all addicts, after all.
3 hours ago, Sazerac said:                                  I love your quit M'life.  Thank you for sharing it all with us.  All your writings resonate so well with all of us.  There are threads that link us all together.                   We are all addicts, after all.          Wel, I'm glad you love it, cause I honestly friggin hate it at the moment.  I have to put it out in the open or I'll cave. I still need it to control my quit.  But I have this CONSTANT voice: attention seeker, loser. I know where this voice comes from.. and it's not a nice place. I hope quitting will eventually bring me a bit more at peace with myself. Ive seen parts of that already.      Bring it on, I'll get there.
You sharing all the crazy you feel at the moment is a gift you are leaving for those travelling the quit road behind you. I promise you there are lurkers out there reading your every post and there are those who will read your words and take a deep breath and think yep, I can do this too and can take back my life and and my recovery and grow. You are someones or many someones shining example.     Many have said this, its in threads all over the train but MLMR this is all about your quit... especially in the early days... it needs to be, until you come out of the fog of dependency and re-learn how to experience and feel life it has to be all about you and your quit... its not about being narcissistic or self indulged it is about learning about being a smoke free you... its about learning and enforcing that mornings are about breathing deeply of the smoke free air... its about enjoying a drink without a nicotine chaser... now how many mornings have you started the day with a smoke? and how many (72?) have you started without... it takes time... around the 3 month mark lots of us get frustrated with the time it seems to be taking, and the fact that the same things seem to rear their heads again and again... the thing is if you have done something a few thousand times, every day in a row and you haven't for 70 days in a row which receptors are going to be in the majority.... it works though, just give it time... I used to be have my first smoke before I even went to the loo in the morning.. now I don't even think about having one... it takes time... but it comes.       OK.. so the changes in you as a person and how you see yourself... that comes too and you are right it has started all ready for you... a lot of things from my childhood (which was, bumpy) I thought had been dealt with resurfaced when I quit and a lot of my behaviour became obvious that it was because of things that happened as a kid... and there was a time when I hated my quit because all these 'flaws' were being thrown in my face and I had to deal with them, because I couldn't have a smoke and hide... but I feel stronger, and free-er and I love that quitting smokes is letting me be the person I was meant to be... and that will come for you too.... so basically what I am saying is everything really is all about your quit and you.... and you need to invest the time and energy into it, even when it is at the annoying stages because the rewards, oh the rewards to everything from how you look, to your health, to how you feel are worth every moment you doubt it and have to fight and fake it until you make it .... so this is one of those horrible stages... like the terrible twos... but your quit is strong, you are strong, and write it all, for you, for us and for those coming behind because it is a real gift you are giving to everyone.
A big thankyou @notsmokinjo.    For reminding me to acknowledge and value the steps I take. And having a little faith in time.      I woke up this morning and thought, ok, another night has passed. The day ahead of me will not be longer than any other day. Trying to be at peace with what it's like right now, cause fighting and judging my state of mind obviously has the opposite effect. There is a big chance this wont last as long as sh*tty stinky butt thoughts want to make me believe. @c9jane29 thanks to you I have this image of a gross stinkin' glitter covered ass, whenever I reach that stage where humor is thankgodfully taking over again.
3 hours ago, MLMR said:             thanks﻿ to you I have this image ﻿of a gross stinkin' glitter covered ass, whenever I reach that stage where humor is thankgodfully ﻿﻿taking over again. ﻿                      Good!! Cuz I'm ready to come cover your stanky butt in glitter  (I kid, only a little) I want you to find that happiness again...I hate that evil voice that's telling you that you aren't good enough. I barely know you and I know that's not true!! But, sometimes we have to dig down deep and find the bottoms of those ugly places so we know what's down there in order to fix it before we fill in the holes. I've been to the bottom too many times and I know there is nothing down there for me...you'll get there soon enough. And, when you want to claw your way back to the top, I'll still be here cheering you on and throwing these ropes to make it easier  even if you're grumpy, I'm still gonna try to be your friend.    You are very much appreciated around here.
        Just gonna be here...cheering you on...even if you don't want it right now, I want you to know you are not alone 
@c9jane29  thanks. Plundering the willpower stash these days. X
    You can do it MLMR, heck you ARE doing it! Stand proud and believe in yourself. You have an awesome toolbox and great support so lean on us whenever you need to             
Thank you @jillar . I am really looking forward to 22/11, that will mark 3 months.   It's just pushing through now. Bleghh. Just got to do it. Got some things going on, keep telling myself that Im better off not smoking and these things would have happened anyway.
    Yep MLMR, that's what we all have to tell ourselves. But each time we push through we get stronger  You are doing great and are right where you should be in terms of quitting. I had a pretty difficult first year so if I can do it anyone can  
Day 74,8. Sailed pretty rough for the last 4 days. I would love to say something wise, smart about it. But tadaaa, haven't got any of those words for you! I had a few immense 'wanting moments', didn't do it and am not particularly proud or happy. I am romanticizing smoking like crazy for the last few days. 'Pfewww, smoking would be a relief when we are fighting like this'. Having thoughts about smoking in regard to have at least one 'little' thing for myself. Somehow it doesnt pay off to take time to debunk thoughts. I want them thoughts gone and I want it now.. grmbl.         So I decided to faire Ignore Way.  Not trying to outsmart addiction, wearing myself out by this ever learning and thinking smart sh*t. Ok thoughts, you are here. Whatever. I don't smoke.          (omg. Will this ever end)                Edited November 5, 2018 by MLMRIncluded an appropriate funny picture
Yes MLMR, they WILL end, we just have to go through it for them TO end. You're doing great and right where you should be in your quit. You're nearing three months and nicotine is fighting hard to win you back so just trust the process. It will get soooooo much better One thing I did each month was look back on my posts from the start, this helped show me that although it didn't always feel like it, I was progressing and winning the battle Edited November 5, 2018 by jillar
It's a beautiful "yay" face, friend     Sometimes we just have to fake it til we make it...maybe it's the "curse of the 3s" (3 days, 3 weeks, 3 months) blues and hopefully clears up soon.     Until then, keep working on finding that reward or that one thing that's just for you. I know it's hard...trust me.     I've told you before but I'll say it again...even if you're grumpy, I'm still glad you're here
You're trekking through No Man's Land now MLMR. You've fought through the horrible early days and established your quit and amassed tools to help you fight the weaker cravings that continue to arrive at your doorstep day to day but the newness of the quit has worn off so now it's just daily plodding along now - no fanfare like there may have been in the early days. You're not far enough along yet for your mind to be comfortable with your daily routine (without smokes). This alone is unsettling. Just as in the early days, progress seems stalled. You can't see any day to day so you think it's stopped? NO! It's still happening and now you will be tested to see not how strong you are to fight those strong and frequent early carvings but to see now what your endurance is. The challenges won't be as pronounced or as frequent as the early days but they will still come and it's your job now to deal with them one at a time, The principal is still the same as early on. The longer you keep putting one foot in front of the other day by day, the sooner you will feel the weight of this change lift from you and you will begin to really appreciate just what you have done for yourself. You have almost 1/4 year invested and that's something to be really proud of and also excited about. Now it's even more important than ever that you stick close to your friends and supporters on this board because we know exactly what you are going through. We have been there ourselves - we get it! Reflect on all you've done and continue to build on that amazing foundation
Day 80. It's like I am in a vacuum. Too far in to give up, too early on to have strong faith that I'll get through the few tough things life is throwing at me right now.   'For sure people don't want to listen to you any more, go fix these thoughts yourself! You started this, now do what they say and cut the crap! Go walk! Go do some NLP-ish thing to get rid of the voices! And keep up your spirit for the newbies, wouldnt want to discourage them, huh?'         I am scared that I'll snap one of these days. I have not been this scared to fail, not since I started. There now, it's out.
hello M'life.   Please understand that you are only responsible to yourself and your quit.  Your effect on others and their quits is not your job   and it is not something you have any control over.  All you can do is be true to yourself and hold on to your commitment to yourself and your quit.     Your posts are important.  They express what you and many others, who have difficulty communicating,  are feeling and experiencing. Every post is an important post.  I am not tired of listening to you.  I can't be...I am watching a chrysalis turn into a butterfly.        Day 80 !  Hang in there, bebe.  You quit smoking.  Reward yourself.  Nurture your sweet self.
1 hour ago, MLMR said:              Too far in to give up           M'life, that is the thought you want to hold onto.  I am only a little ways ahead of you in my quit and I have been experiencing many of your emotions. The thoughts I try to keep at the forefront of everything are:  I have never actually quit smoking, until now.  That first month was very difficult - why would I want to go through that again - ever. I really disliked the person that smoked and was so ashamed.    Plain and simple - just do not go there.  That option is not even on the table.     You and I are going to do this.  Keep posting - it helps me immensely because I know I am not alone
MLMR I echo Sazerac. Don't worry about discouraging newbies. You are being honest about how your quit is and that is something that is useful to anyone else having as hard a time. I had a really hard quit too and can totally relate. Your posts help others who can relate so they don't feel alone either. Congratulations on 80 days, that really is a great quit you have
    You won't love quitting all of the time.  (Later on you will.)  But you gave yourself the addiction to nicotine and now you are the one that's putting an end to it.  You are fixing a problem that has been going on for a long time.  You are taking positive steps forward.  This is a good thing!
    MLMR        It's okay to voice the struggle.  I think most newbies know this is not a walk in the park.  That's what makes emerging from the struggle all the more consequential - the fact that it wasn't easy.    The important thing to know is that eventually you will emerge from the tough times - stronger, healthier and wealthier.  You're doing great.
18 hours ago, Sazerac said:             Please understand that you are only responsible to yourself and your quit.                  Your effect on others and their quits is not your job                   and it is not something you have any control over.                  All you can do is be true to yourself and hold on to your commitment to yourself and your quit.         You are right Sally. Jo also said something like this a while ago 'it's about your quit as long as it needs to be', or something like that. So, chin up, tits first. I. Am. Doing. This.            17 hours ago, Linda Thomas said:                M'life, that is the thought you want to hold onto.          Yes. I got scared because I let thoughts enter my mind like 'if you can't hold on to motivation you are doomed to fail'. I remember I had an epiphany about that in the early days, where I realised that's were 'Nope' comes in:  as long as you keep noping, you succeed every day.           17 hours ago, jillar said:               I had a really hard quit too and can totally relate.       Jillar, you have such a steady way of supporting me (and other people). Thanks a lot for that. Actually, I imagined you being with me here in my room yesterday, talking me through! It's comforting to know that I am not the only one who struggled (and ofcourse the most empowering part is to know that you made it!!!).
17 hours ago, Paul723 said:             You won't love quitting all of the time.  (Later on you will.)  But you gave yourself the addiction to nicotine and now you are the one that's putting an end to it.  You are fixing a problem that has been going on for a long time.  You are taking positive steps forward.  This is a good thing!               Yes, I can take responsability  in this, in fact I am doing that, though not always as steadfast as I would like.  This is a good thing indeed. Simple as that. *repeat*        17 hours ago, BKP said:             It's okay to voice the struggle.  I think most newbies know this is not a walk in the park.  That's what makes emerging from the struggle all the more consequential - the fact that it wasn't easy.                    The important thing to know is that eventually you will emerge from the tough times - stronger, healthier and wealthier.  You're doing great.           This morning I had a tiny, tiny glimpse of pride. I know with time these moments will occur again, each in it's own time and for it's own reason. Trusting the proces and onwards.Edited November 10, 2018 by MLMR
        You GO  Girl
Today... I had the best day quit-wise in ... uhm, 2 weeks? Yes!!    This morning I left my appartment and I smelled the crispiest clearest rainy fall leaves wet earth smell EVER. And I was so happy about making it through the stormy head weather!      Hardly thought about smoking. Though rainy season brings back smoking  memories, it also re-introduces my reasons and well, I kinda lost touch with them. Imagine picking up half wet jacket, foul cigarette smell hanging around it. Imagine a constant shower falling out of the sky and needing thag cig and having trouble keeping it dry and noticing it doesnt even taste that good, going back up to the office, carrying that disgusting smell with you. Not being able to enjoy a good coffee or tea without a cigaret. The constant needyness.        Despite at least 10 really  sh*tty days, I am so glad I am still here. Because what's also happening is this: I eat slower and with more attention. I drive my car less hasty, I have more patience. I sleep REALLY well. I am calmer in general, even though still dealing with my regular moodswings and panicks.     I don't know what the proces has in further store for me... but right now I am content with the way non-smoke life is.
    Awww, your first glance at what lies ahead MLMR, that's great! I'm so glad that today was good for you. This is why we go through those nasty first few weeks, to get to the other side  You are doing Fantastic!  
    More great days ahead for you ! You are shiny and new.  Beautiful.
8 hours ago, MLMR said:             I﻿ don't know what the proce﻿s has in further store﻿ for me... but ﻿right now I ﻿am c﻿ontent with the way non-smoke lif﻿e is. ﻿ Happiness and freedom, friend! You've earned it.    It's easy to lose touch with those reasons we quit. (Especially during this no man's land time frame) You get the "What now?" feeling of non-excitement...that's when you throw your own glitter, bring your own balloons to the party, and learn to love your quit! Just love the freshness of everything...It's a new life, a new world, a new you!! We're all so proud to follow you on this journey and can't wait to greet you on the lido deck, whiskeys in hand!! (Or Coors, or rum, almond milk maybe)  Brought a little something just in case you need some for later     ﻿﻿﻿﻿    Edit to add the link to Mental Balloons; a great post! (gonfishn21 just celebrated 4 yrs so comes from a pretty good source of info.)    Edited November 12, 2018 by c9jane29
I think you will be thrilled to hear I got myself one of these fancy salad spinners, @c9jane29. I figured its a great gift, because its practical in case there's salad (or carrots) on the menu. Yep. I did it, just like that. Walkin' the reward path the Dutch calvinist way.       But... the possibilities !
15 minutes ago, MLMR said:              But﻿... ﻿the possibilities !            Make sure you wash it well or the consequences could be to beautiful to flush!!
    I am touched by how beautiful that looks, hence the tears. 
    You sound in a good place....so happy for you ...
2 hours ago, MLMR said:             I am touched by how beautiful that looks, hence the tears.          Rewards, my friend!
Day 85! Less than a week away from completing three months. Things have calmed down a bit, since somewhere between last saturday and sunday. Brain is still doing it's best to lure me into to smoking, but I'm back at where I was in my second month: able to detach from the thoughts and going strong in counter-thinking. Repeating over and over and training myself in that really does the trick and though it's annoying sometimes, I'm sure I'll benefit from it now and later on.        It fascinates me. The time distortion, change of perspective (sometimes in the blink of an eye), having a sense of real power over the addiction versus 'I'm a victim and will this ever end' (yes, at times my brain thinks like that. I'm ashamed about it but it is what it is and I find comfort in the fact that I muster up the courage not to identify with that thought. Because that's where I would really have a problem and definitely would end up smoking one after another again).       I remember somewhere in the beginning, I thought about balance, between surrendering to the proces (aka trust) while still deciding where to go next. Probably still working for me.        So, I think I'm safe to say I had my fair share of three-month-hardship and thank god it didn't last the entire month. And now I have yet another major milestone within reach, ha!      Edited November 16, 2018 by MLMR
The count down has begun!! Come on 4 monthiversary!!    So proud of you, friend! Making breakfast, here's a cuppa to warm you up
59 minutes ago, c9jane29 said:              The count down has begun!! Come on 4 monthiversary!!                    So proud of you, friend! Making breakfast, here's a cuppa to warm you up    Thanks, amigo.! So thoughtful of you. And I whish it was a 4mo monthiversari, but got to do 3 first     Ridiculous junkie thinking has been shouting at me today. Shouting back didn't work out, took walks and everything. Ah well. It's one of these 'world, please f yourself'-days, I had them back then and I sometimes have them now. At least I'm glad the stinky component is out of todays picture.        But hey, there's bear  coffee from Texas!!
    I thought the voice of my addict surely gained VOLUME   while laying low on frequency as the first year quit rolled around.     While the whine didn't even tempt me after a while  it was still an interruption that demanded attention.   This infuriated me at times.        All I can tell you is that the addict's voice becomes v. quiet and infrequent after time.   You won't be thinking about smoking/not smoking forever.  I promise.    Ride it out.    These are just receptors in your brain getting re-fitted.  You are claiming back your brain.     
42 minutes ago, MLMR said:              And﻿ I whish it was a 4mo monthiversari, but got﻿ to ﻿d﻿o 3 first﻿ whoops!! Sorry. I'm so bad with numbers...Either way, I already got you a present!   I figured you needed a pick me up...I could see the Dutchland glitter clouds from here!!    Your doing great, and your right in this fact:      On 11/16/2018 at 3:50 AM, MLMR said:                Repeating﻿ over and over and training myself in that really does the trick﻿ and though it's annoying sometimes, I'm sure ﻿﻿I﻿'ll benefit from it now and later on.          You are retraining your brain. The brain is very stubborn, tricky, and loves to take the easy way out...it will eventually learn the new way of doing things...some just take longer than others.   I would have sent pancakes with the coffee but the kids ate em as fast as I could make them...all the while singing my favorite song "Mom! Mom!mom!"
2 hours ago, Sazerac said:              While the whine didn't even tempt me after a while                  it was still an interruption that demanded attention.                   This infuriated me at times.                                        All I can tell you is that the addict's voice becomes v. quiet and infrequent after time.                   You won't be thinking about smoking/not smoking forever.  I promise.                    Ride it out.                    These are just receptors in your brain getting re-fitted.  You are claiming back your brain.                                Sally, yes, it's an interruption that demands attention.. and it's easy to be tricked in giving it the wrong kind of attention. In my experience there is not one specific way to deal with it. Often I can handle it by thinking AND acting on Hungry, Angry, Lonely, Tired. Sometimes walks do the trick, etc. Riding it out, like you said. Yesterday I had a date with my sisters, had been four years ago for the three of us to go out for dinner. I took the train, something  I did for years but haven't done now in some time. Brain went insane! And it looks like I took these moments there with me into the next day somehow, cause I had a hard time shutting them up today. I figure i dealt with multiple triggers (sisters, train, going out, memories and some tears) and brain thinks that shouting junkie thoughts is a great way or coping. Anyway.. glad when there's another day done, to be short          1 hour ago, c9jane29 said:   whoops!! Sorry. I'm so bad with numbers...Either way, I already got you a present!                 I figured you needed a pick me up...I could see the Dutchland glitter clouds from here!!                                        You are retraining your brain. The brain is very stubborn, tricky, and loves to take the easy way out...it will eventually learn the new way of doing things...some just take longer than others.                   I would have sent pancakes with the coffee but the kids ate em as fast as I could make them...all the while singing my favorite song "Mom! Mom!mom!"      Haha never be sorry! The coffee was much appreciated indeed, with glitter stores empty... stash gone….    Yes, thanks for saying that about the brain loves taking the easy way out and all. It is SO DARN TEMPTING to identify with that and think, ahw to hell with it! BUT! I! WONT! DO! THAT!     So, you have some little Stewies there with you, huh? Poor girl! Sharing my kidless house for the evening with you would be great,  áhw such an expensive ticket though! :(         p.s. Jane, do you here the drums roll…… trrrrrrrrrrrrtrrrrrrrrrrtrtrtrtrtrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrratatatataaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa..... tonight i ate sushi.....chopsticks and all….. not even one tiny mistake…. got them all unharmed to my mouth….. Yeah!Edited November 17, 2018 by MLMR
3 hours ago, MLMR said:             tonight﻿ i ate ﻿sushi.....chopsticks and all….. not even one tiny mistake…. got them all unharmed to my﻿﻿﻿ mouth….. Yeah!           Ahhhhhhhhh!!! I rove shushi!!!! Eat like this...it's no problem     Was it delicious? I love it....I'm over here half on google looking at every sushi roll on there    Re-freakin-wards, girl! Glad you got to go out with your sisters! Fun, fun!! You have earned such an awesome reward!
10 hours ago, c9jane29 said:                Was it delicious?
07:23 AM. Woke up after an old fashion panicky night, to the point where deep breathing epically failed. Pacing the house,  heart beating like crazy. Not feeling like myself, but one big piece of fear. I always know it will go away eventually but in that moment it's impossible to hold on to that knowledge.         It's been a while since I had on of these, I think 5 or six weeks ago. Quitting does actually work well in reducing panick attacks. I dare say it now... oh yes, it's true. I used to have many more,  but untill now I didn't quite realise it because for the last three months most of my thoughts were about the unrest,  the battle against junkie thinking.       It's unsetteling to have had one again, makes me wonder what I did wrong. But thats just as automatic as junkie thinking: the inner blame game, I associate fear with guilt. Maybe this is the right time to counterthink these thoughts as well and start focussing on new associations.       Ah well... first got a day to live through.
    Hope you're doing well now.  Your journey has been amazing to follow and I'm sure will inspire other quitters.
I hope that by writing this down the urge calms. Smokey thoughts are strong again. I try to reward myself each evening, but thats even more diffcult than not smoking. My world is upside down, things happening so fast now. Got to remind myself that I have a say in some of it. And the things happening to people around me are not my job to fix. Got to be with me.      Some people even told me, ah just have a smoke. It's not ok for you to still crave!! What shitty advise is that.        Looking forward to sunnier months and to that self confidence everyone is talking about.    -edit- tckr just told me Im  2%over half of first half! I guess that's worth a yay Edited November 25, 2018 by MLMR
ML....  Sorry your having to deal with some of life curve balls just now... Rewards can be very small...nice smelling shower gel....nice bath bomb and soak...new hairbrush...it doesn't matter as long as it's a great for you.... Non smokers have some crappy times too...   You have a fabulous 3 months quit....what would be gained by smoking now ....nothing .....you would still have all the problems ,Plus you would be so disappointed ...  Don't listen to the folks telling you to smoke ...that is so negative ....keep coming here....post as much as you want ...SOS if need be......stay strong ...
    Thanks @Doreensfree, The thing is, I don't actually crave smoking. Im put off by the thought of a smoke between my lips, by the smell, by the taste. And when I think further ... the slavery, the shame etc etc etc. Just nope nope, smoking is a big fat nope.        Still. Finding a new way to deal with things, which at the moment aren't really everyday-things... (not comfortable putting it up here for everyone to read). It's really about learning to deal with sh*t in a non-toxic way. Non-toxic being...healthy, or something?  Rewarding, taking GOOD showers, spoiling myself with .... things! Ahhh it's so not what I'm used to. In the first month of my quit I owned that part..     I think I just GOT to do it. When I feel like it, when I don't feel like it or when I'm about to smash something real hard. Got to get that dopamine production to work.                 
    I am way behind you so have nothing to offer in the way of quit advice.         A good few years ago I felt a bit like you have lately. It wasn't because I quit smoking, it was because my marriage ended.         I made a complete tit of myself trying to get him back but nothing worked. Then I was left with the reality that my whole life had changed and everything was different.        It took me about six months to feel I could actually start living my new life. It was a different life but it soon became the norm.         What I'm trying to say is no matter how much you try and find a solution to change how you feel it isn't always there. Time really is sometimes the only healer and you can drive yourself nuts trying to speed up the process.         I read this thread every time you post on it and it's such a positive influence for all of us following in your footsteps.      Sending you lots of positive vibes to get through 
47 minutes ago, MLMR said:              Thanks @Doreensfree, The thing is, I don't actually crave smoking. Im put off by the thought of a smoke between my lips, by the smell, by the taste. And when I think further ... the slavery, the shame etc etc etc. Just nope nope, smoking is a big fat nope.                                        Still. Finding a new way to deal with things, which at the moment aren't really everyday-things... (not comfortable putting it up here for everyone to read). It's really about learning to deal with sh*t in a non-toxic way. Non-toxic being...healthy, or something?  Rewarding, taking GOOD showers, spoiling myself with .... things! Ahhh it's so not what I'm used to. In the first month of my quit I owned that part..                                     I think I just GOT to do it. When I feel like it, when I don't feel like it or when I'm about to smash something real hard. Got to get that dopamine production to work.                                                                                                ML....Great to hear,that smoking is off the table ...   Take a step back and think of what you are achieving.....you are amazing...you are doing what every smoker on the planet ...deep down want,s to achieve ..  I too have received some news lately will will change my life comp!etely...how will I deal with this ?.....Day By Day...and do the best I can...    That's all of any of us can do...don't be hard on yourself ....xx
    As I look back on my smoking days, big life hits of shock, unhappiness and difficult changes were always dealt with chain smoking events and hiding in my puff of smoke never changed one thing.  It actually always made me feel lousier.   Now that I am a nonsmoker, I think I finally experience true emotion when difficult things happen.  I cry, I lean on the ones I love and have surrounded myself with authentic, true friendship.  I believe my quit friends can guide me through anything.  We are here for you MLMR and Doreen.  Life is always going to be full of crappy things.  Smoking does not have to be one of them!
Sorry you're having a tough time MLMR and I'm so glad you didn't listen to those that said go ahead and have a smoke. Don't know if the person who said that was a smoker or not but I do know that smokers hate losing a 'partner in crime' and nonsmokers have no idea the grab this addiction has on us. But we know and will be here for you to help get you through the rough spots.   There is a light at the end of the tunnel MLMR so just keep putting one foot in front of the other P.S. @Doreensfree, we're here for you too...... Edited November 26, 2018 by jillar
    ML, Life will happen with our without smokes.  So glad you're staying strong and dealing with everything without giving in.  
    Well, must be 'tis the season'  I, too, have some life changing issues to suddenly deal with.   Times that I would have smothered in a shroud of smoke. I thought....yep, these are the times I would have an endless smoke dangling from my lips...    but, these are new times,   it is a new day.    I am no longer a slave and refuse to enslave myself ever again.     I am glad M'life you are working on your rewards.   These are so important  and reminds me to reward myself as well,    we all need some extra dopamine especially in this dark time of the year.    
    * Craving is not an emergency.  * I can do this because I am a grown woman with skills. Even during dissociation and reliving the trauma, I am still that same grown woman.     * I am capable of doing what's best for me. * Smoking does in no way enhance this situation. It won't make my friend have less of a fight in hospital and it won't make me steadier. It most definitely will not heal relationship wounds.  * This is temporary. This will pass.    * There is no quick fix in this. Breath, that's all I have to do.   * If events will take certain turns, they would have anyway.         
    Great words, ML.  Hope things work out for you and your friend but you've got it right ... events will take whatever turn they need to.  You can do this, ML, you're a strong woman.     
    Keep writing MLMR, and then re-read it as needed. It's all so true and I too hope your friend pulls through. You're doing great 
    We all wish we had some magic words to offer you MLMR that would pull you through your life struggles at this time but that's of course not possible. What we can do is encourage you and stand with you during these times. Admiration from all go your way because we do understand just how much more challenging it is to continue building your quit while other life challenges sap your emotion strength.        Good on you for keeping your quit intact!
On 11/27/2018 at 11:23 PM, d2e8b8 said:             ML, Life will happen with our without smokes.  So glad you're staying strong and dealing with everything without giving in.             Yes. Life will happen. Im trying to look my receptors right into their eyes to tell 'm that. Life goes on, after smoking. Im clinging to people who say it does get better, even with the downs happening.          6 hours ago, jillar said:               Keep writing MLMR, and then re-read it as needed. It's all so true and I too hope your friend pulls through. You're doing great     Thanks. Counting days. First week of month 4 has passed already. Trying to make a positive out of these things happening so early on in my quit. There' s has to follow some unicornish awareness at some point,  where I come out all changed and self confident and shiny.            6 hours ago, reciprocity said:              We all wish we had some magic words to offer you MLMR that would pull you through your life struggles at this time but...           'It does get better' are magic words to me and thank god there's plenty of that on the board. Each of us has their story.. and things to go through.. I believe people who say it will be better! I believe people who say I have to force myself to humor, I believe people who say I must find a way to look at beautiful things and to (&#£×£÷&$*=)reward myself, as much of a joke that may seem right now. So yeah, there's magic words here. Thanks!!!
    Day by day ...one day you will suddenly reolize you havnt thought of smoking very much that day.....the magic will happen ...   We are all here to tell you this wonderful news....and we will help you until then ML....   This magic moment happens at different times for different folks ....you are already giving yourself the best gift you can give yourself ....   Freedom From Addiction.....high five !!!!!
    It gets better and better incrementally,    you will only notice in hindsight at first  then the good days will be running fast.    Not to say, real life won't bring conflict or worry or....well....LIFE  but, it won't be associated with smoking or not smoking.
    Having a luck dragon ... also magic words :).    It does get better.  I'm kind of still amazed that after all those years of smoking, I can now run.  Rather than being out of breath, I worry about injuries and such ... that's pretty awesome to me and something I cherish every day.    I'm sure you have your own something that amazes you because of not smoking.
    I'm amazed at the freedom I feel every day to do what ever I want to do without having to service my addiction every half hour or so.   I feel good about myself for a change!
    Thinking of you and imagining your face in splendid sunlight.
So ha, I figured something out last week. I remember this was an issue before somewhere in my journal, but I guess certain topics need more than just one click.    Early on in my quit I dealt with many addict moments: coffee, driving, phonecalls etc. etc. etc. At one point I thought I had that under control. Untill I found out that whenever the going got tough, these seemingly conquered moments where challenges again.  Be it less than before, but still. Apparantly they are not just moments in time, they are all linked and flaring up whenever shit hits the fan. Smoking gave me the impression of a foundation. While, in reality, it constantly, day in day out, kept me unstable. Always looking for moments to get that dopamine fix. What that tells me is that, besides the simple fact that Im a wired nicotine addict, I have a certain need for predictability. Whenever things in life are difficult, I want to be able to fall back on something. I want to build in certainties, rythm, kindness.  These past 7 days I did that by talking to myself in the mirror: How I did well (at night) or how proud I was for heading up for another day. No matter how corny it felt, I did it. Rythm, of doing what I promised myself.   And now I realise Im almost halfway month four already. Which will be 1/3 of a year. Yeah!!          Edited December 4, 2018 by MLMR
    Nice post ML....    Who better to talk to you...than yourself....   We all believed the Lies as addicts......and have had to retrain our brains... And unravel the lies.... Well done ....  Your climbing that rope to Freedom !!!
    I'm guessing that you are already starting to see the light at the end of the tunnel getting brighter and brighter and you will start to see more and more points when you feel just "normal" again - not struggling to be something you're not comfortable being (if that makes any sense to you ). It happens to everyone at some point during that first year when we truly see that a permanent quit IS possible for us and that we can not only live with it but we welcome it! 
@reciprocity true and yes that makes sense.. it's like everything in my head is reorganizing. It' so good to know I have the power NOT to smoke, with everything thats happening right now. If you told me that in the beginning, would have laughed at ya! Telling myself that with every moment I overcome, I break another tie. And then once in a while I have this overwhelming sense of calmth and steadyness... wow. And each non-smoking day I contribute to generating more of that! Edited December 4, 2018 by MLMR
    ML...has asked me to move this thread to Off The Record.....x
@MLMR, I have the feeling this thread is helping a lot of people with your honest posts about how its going. I think many a lurker was benefitting by reading it in the introduction forum. I love watching your journey and seeing your inner strength build with each new day  
@jillar it felt too open. Been dealing a lot with panick attacks lately, more than pre-quitting. Negative thoughts about myself are a huge deal of these phases and I suspect writing about quitting triggers it, partly. Old demons are forcing themselves upon me, I'm really having a tough time. I'll make it without smokes, but wow. Ugly things in my head and Im not so sure if thats for the whole world to read... but not writing is not yet an option.      So thats why I asked Doreen to move this thread, at least for now.
    Totally understandable @MLMR, I hope you feel better soon  
5th night in a row with poor sleep. The past days have been whirlwinds, so many thoughts. Suddenly the crave's back: darn receptors scream for their candy. Why now, suddenly?  Yet, conciously thinking about smoking makes me want to vomit. What then is it? Probably the huge inconvenience of being by myself and the spooky images I create when I'm not paying close attention.      First weekend alone. Well not entirely, will be helping a friend painting in her new home. It's like with quitting.... debunking thoughts.... did that past week... but now I'm kinda done with that and just want proper sleep and no more uncanny-stomach-achish background noise.        I do care. I do care and just to be sure, I DO CARE.
    Aww sorry your not getting much sleep M.... That nico monster is still tapping your shoulder and whispering ...Hey Remember Me !!!!!!   Take it steady ...still one minute at a time ...I know you won't smoke ...he will eventually give up ....you are stronger than him...   Painting will be a great way of keeping busy ...tell that mister to ...Go Do One !!!!!
    MLMR, those craves seem to really rear their heads when we are low, struggling with other feelings and exhausted.  Distraction is the best.  Painting will give you a feeling of accomplishment and hopefully a sense of tired from the work.  I know a virtual hug just does not cut it like the real thing.  I so wished I lived closer that we could help each other through the tough times.  Just keep pampering yourself, you so deserve that right now.  
    Sorry you're going through all this right now MLMR, and as long as you do care then your quit is safe! Keep caring, keep busy, it will get better, I promise....
    G’day   Can you live on a promise?  I promise it does get better.... So Much Better.    Youll get to a point where you’ll have a bad nights sleep and never even think about the smokes.    Trust me that is freedom and you’ll get to that place that you deserve to be!   Chris
1 hour ago, Cbdave said:                G’day                   Can you live on a promise?          Yes. I have to. I really don't have another option, do I?
11 hours ago, MLMR said:                Yes. I have to. I really don't have another option, do I?                                                   G’day   I got pneumonia in the Sept 2015, by the end of the month I was on champix and by oct 10 stopped. My choice My decision. My power. Never I thought that I was somehow trapped into making it or feelings of being trapped. Saying you have no choice gives the smokes more power than they deserve! Don’t forget you have just pulled off “a death defining act”. GoodOnYa!
I know you are right. My energy is being drained by dealing with breakup,  since last weekend. Not only did I lose my man, I also  have to discard an image of what our future would have been like. Every crave I thought id dealt with in the past 5 months, is back. Am not sure how, only know that I HAVE to get through without lighting up.      I do have a choice and I make it time and time again.  You are right @Cbdave
G’day   A relationship break up?    Yep you’ve got double trouble cause giving up the smokes is giving away a relationship in a way.    There comes a time in any breakup when you’ve got to get a bit of old fashioned HATE going! You owe yourself, none of this civilized sh1t.  Time to hate.   Youve been wronged. You deserve better. Its time to move ahead, cause you need to grow and these remains of a relationship are just a hinderence ...... Chris
"It'll give you a sense of relief!"No. It will give me a sense of dizzyness, sickness and it will taste like fresh diarrea butt.  Smoking will trap me and sooner or later, probably at the very first puff, I will regret it with all my heart.        "Smoke a cigaret and you will be more like your old self!"Yeah, like my old anxious self that is. I quit for a very special reason remember?        "Smoking fits your mood."Smoking has nothing to do with moods whatsoever. I smoked because i am addicted. Now that I am breaking free of that for almost 6 months, I really need to see that smoking does not lift mood or spirit. I have plenty of other (great!) options to do something about my mood. Even when it gets me by the throat. Same principles.          "What does it matter anyway?"It matters, as in cancer. As in all sorts of life-decreasing illnesses. As in slowly suffocating myself. It matters as in life or death, really.       "You will feel less alone."If I light up now, Ill be probably more alone with my stinkcig then I ever was in the past 6 months without.       Junkie thinking, please get your ass out of here.  You don't serve me well.        Edited February 16 by MLMR
3 hours ago, MLMR said:             It'll give you a sense of relief!"      No. It will give me a sense of dizzyness, sickness and it will taste like fresh diarrea butt.  Smoking will trap me and sooner or later, probably at the very first puff, I will regret it with all my heart.                               "Smoke a cigaret and you will be more like your old self!"      Yeah, like my old anxious self that is. I quit for a very special reason remember?                              "Smoking fits your mood."       Smoking has nothing to do with moods whatsoever. I smoked because i am addicted. Now that I am breaking free of that for almost 6 months, I really need to see that smoking does not lift mood or spirit. I have plenty of other (great!) options to do something about my mood. Even when it gets me by the throat. Same principles.                               "What does it matter anyway?"       It matters, as in cancer. As in all sorts of life-decreasing illnesses. As in slowly suffocating myself. It matters as in life or death, really.                                "You will feel less alone."     If I light up now, Ill be probably more alone with my stinkcig then I ever was in the past 6 months without.                     Junkie thinking, please get your ass out of here.  You don't serve me well.            MLMR, that definitely says it all.  What a great way to work through the craves.  Writing down the questions and answering them.  I think you have answered them for all of us.  You read these and wonder how we can even let that thought of smoking creep in.
    You needn't let any junkie thoughts take a hold of you. You needn't listen to any complete sentences,   squish them mid phrase and replace them with your true thoughts and reward yourself for every junkie thought squelched. What you are doing is re-claiming your brain, one receptor at a time.       I yelled, 'FREE YOUR HEAD' mid phrase and drowned them out as quick as I could. 
    I agree with Linda MLMR, this thread is going to, and probably already has, helped a lot of people. 
    Absolutely..... This post has been honest ....and I'm certain it has helped more folks than you think ...   I don't know how many times I yelled ..Smoking is not on the table ..!!!!!.....
    You could actually copy and paste this post to the "Pre Respond to Your Own SOS" thread because all the statements are true and reading them makes you stop and consider reality vs junkie thinking sweet-talk.
3 O'clock midnight. Too many things to worry about and too little sleep. Junkie thinking keeps interfering. Its absurd and it drives me mad. How can 'I really got this now, I had a definite click moment!' be so close to 'ahh,  well... what would it matter...'.        Not even the slightest doubt about lighting up. No room for discussion. And yet, that annoying prick of junkie thinking over and over again. 'Oh you thought you had coffee, driving, meals covered, for more than 5 months now? Not anymore, since breakup! Go have fun figuring it out all over a-fvucking-gain!' 'You reduced panick and even felt better afterwards? HA-HA! Life sheds a different light now, so enjoy adjusting!'      So, listen up, ogre of a shit addiction. I wont buy cigarettes. I wont smoke. I stand my ground. 'This too shall pass' and all the cliché postcard texts together!!!!! I have come this far and I promis myself again: Not One Puff Ever. Aaaaaarrrrrrggggghhhh!!Edited February 22 by MLMR
    Keep telling the monster to Fvck  Off...    He will get the message M...one day he will give up trying ....
    Sometimes, the ferocity of a crave is mind blowing  especially in the first year when your brain finds yet another connection to nicotine.  Do not be discouraged.  One by one, each and every brain receptor will be re-claimed.   This is why rewards are essential.
    Yes it's surprisingly tough at times throughout that first year and this far along there can be huge WTF moments because you believe you are further along  and shouldn't be feeling tested so strongly again. Thing is, they are just moments now and not upon you constantly as they were in the beginning. Proof you're winning! Stay strong - stay committed and you'll be fine. Remember, it's a process. A rather long one at times.
    I'm glad you have this thread to vent on MLMR, writing the words down always seems to make the feelings less powerful. Why let a breakup come between you and your awesome quit? Keep going girl and just remember that everything happens for a reason. Your special someone is out there  
1 hour ago, jillar said:                Your special someone is out there   I usually dont believe in special someones... bit of a love cynic here, but above all too fond of my freedom. But with him, it was different. I thought. Never ever did I think about buying a house with someone (aka, building a future) untill I met that guy. And yet .... this is where we are at.     The situation calls upon my sanity and patience. And sooner or later, just with quitting smoking, things will ease out and ill be able to move on.      But first, wine and brownies
51 minutes ago, MLMR said:              But first, wine and brownies        Yes, wine and brownies can always brighten a day
     
Note to self: stay sharp. Know what this is about.      "When I saw his casket being lowered into the ground, I lost every single ounce of desire for a cigarette. I quit cold turkey without any cravings or thoughts of cigarettes anymore. I did not have withdrawal symptoms, or if I did, I didn't notice them because my heart was broken and grieving desperately for my only brother who laid six feet under ground.        Cigarettes can and will kill you. Sometimes you die slowly, sometimes you die quickly, it all depends on what disease you get from smoking. It took a heart wrenching horrific tragedy to open my eyes. Don't wait until it's too late, quit smoking today and embrace life to the fullest without lethal cigarettes in your system. You can do it."     https://whyquit.com/whyquit/Memorial.html   
Smokey memories. Went away with sis yesterday, to get my very first diving lesson ever (birthday present, so cool).     Have not spent together-time with her other dan dinner or drinks, for the last 6 months. So there it was: right when she picked me up for the 2,5 hr drive, I was thinking about our first smoke stop. That thought kinda stayed with me all day and whenever it presented itself again, I told myself how I was using this day to pave at least one new brain pathway.     About the diving itself.... uhm ... well, let's just say challenging. But after the initial ohmygodiamcrazyfordoingthis I picked myself up and did it anyway.   I didn't see no fishy at all, though the tank was crowded with it. I was way too busy belly breathing and adjusting the air in my uhm whats it called, vest? Conclusion: swimming and diving are two totally different sports and I'll stick to the first.      And when we left the place, people smoking everywhere. The smell, disgusting! The gap between mental ' wanting'  and the physical attraction of smoking is growing. To me it looks sad and lonely on people, even when they smoke together. I see a junky getting his fix, nothing more to it. But obviously memories still need to be dissected, one by one.       And how I long for the day even thát part is over!           Edited March 2 by MLMR
Love the positivity in this post @MLMR.....its great when the light bulb goes on !!!!!! I started driving late ..O.M G...it took me 18 months and 4 tests....to finally pass....I blamed the driving inspector every time ...lol....    Never could dive either....so ..your not alone....well done sweetheart....
7 hours ago, MLMR said:              And when we left the place, people smoking everywhere. The smell, disgusting! The gap between mental ' wanting'  and the physical attraction of smoking is growing. To me it looks sad and lonely on people, even when they smoke together. I see a junky getting his fix, nothing more to it.﻿ ﻿But obviously memories still need to be dissected, one by one.                You've just made yet another step closer to being permanently free of this crazy addiction  It's shocking how dramatically our perception of smoking situations changes when we become non smokers.  Similar situation for me. The pic below is on a cruise ship. The area circled in Red is "Smokers Corner". The only place on the ship where a person can smoke. A little hard to see because it's a dark corner hidden away from everything else where the sun never shines. I used to frequent this place when I smoked. Now I walk by and feel only pity for those faces I see huddled under the deck there - always the same people, getting their fix while the fun part of life goes on in the sunshine all around them. Aside from pity I feel a little embarrassed that that was me under there in the past. Never again!
    That big black cloud of shame ...I know it well ...it's a great feeling to be finally be free of it ....
Great update @MLMR, it's so great to watch you growing in your freedom from this addiction. And kudos to you for trying diving, I'm too chicken to try lol.@reciprocity your smokers corner pic reminds me of the dark room thread. Hopefully someday they too will see the light Edited March 3 by jillar
@Doreensfree i love it when people obtain their license later on! It shows courage to start the lessons and eventually do the testing. How nice you made it! And ofcourse it was your instructors fault. They do that on purpose, tsss.  @reciprocity       1 hour ago, reciprocity said:                                   You've just made yet another step closer to being permanently free of this crazy addiction      I think so too.     The cruise you spent your quit-savings on is one of the many inspirations this board gave me, did i ever tell you that? Blackened lungs and little breath on one side, oceans, bright skies and lots of sun on another. Easy pick!   @jillar thanks. This morning i read back from page 1 to 19, heartwarming to read every single response. I almost cant believe where I was six months ago, frightened and nervous. Determination came with every week passed.. I know i am not there yet. But I know I am going steady regardless of everything that happened lately.  Yes!      Edited March 3 by MLMR
1 hour ago, MLMR said:                                          @jillar thanks. This morning i read back from page 1 to 19, heartwarming to read every single response. I almost cant believe where I was six months ago, frightened and nervous. Determination came with every week passed.. I know i am not there yet. But I know I am going steady regardless of everything that happened lately.  Yes!                                                          M, this thread is a great testimonial.  I have read through it all myself and it is so wonderful to see your metamorphosis.  Thank you for all your writings.   You are leaving an important legacy here.       Every day will find your brain adjusting to a smoke free environment and your confidence will continue to build.
^^^^ This!
I am in a vacuüm! No mans land the 2nd!     Smoking stinks and repels me and yet i think about it 59 times a day! And i have nothing sensible to say about it.      And I miss @c9jane29 as hell.       Is it tomorrow allready?     Edited March 7 by MLMR
Thoughts of smoking are pretty common at 6 or 7 months quit but they are just that ..... thoughts. Those have no power unless you act on them and I know you won't. Frequency, length and intensity of those thoughts will continue to diminish over time. Yes, it takes awhile but it will continue to get better gradually so just carry on and you'll be fine.   I too an sorry Jane has disappeared. She did a lot to help new quitters but, sometimes, people just decide to move on. She may resurface one day. Life if full of surprises.
22 minutes ago, reciprocity said:               Yes, it takes awhile but it will continue to get better gradually so just carry on and you'll be fine.          I know but im impatient! It seems so stupid to be hatin' it and yet still so strangely obsessed!        But, heck... I can do this once more... on friggin day 198...   Cleaner lungs less risk for cancer less depression no smokey smellin' noooo smokey shame better health overall and. All. The. Other. Benefits. One. Can. Possibly. Imagine.         Goodbye sleep tight, adios.      Edited March 7 by MLMR
1 minute ago, MLMR said:                                     ﻿But, heck... I can do this once more... on friggin day 1﻿98...            You smoked for some number of years I'm guessing. Every day of that time you reinforced your commitment to be a smoker. Smoking was part of everything, especially anxiety and stressful moments. Now it's time to reverse all that thinking so is it any wonder that it takes quite awhile? It won't take nearly as long as the time you smoked but it doesn't happen over night. My own thoughts about smoking have continued to diminish well after my 1 year quit mark.         These distorted thoughts and memories of smoking are the only cards your addiction has left in it's deck because you've already shown your dedication in fighting it since August 22nd of 2018.  Continue to heal by using the logic and truths about smoking that you have acquired since then when smoking thoughts come calling. That is the tool that will erase those thoughts for good eventually. Outsmarting your addiction is the right path.
    Soon it will fall away like a snowflake, you'll hardly notice when it's over.  Please remember to tell us when it happens, it's coming soon.
Horror and more horror. Great way to start a monday morning, ahum. Counting down to 7 months. Only 11 days to go.       "We would have many more lung cancers than we do if smokers could live long enough to get them. When many people with fatal heart attacks or strokes are autopsied, there are often precancerous lesions found that indicate that if these people had a few more years to live they would have eventually succumbed to these smoking induced diseases."     "Each day thousands upon thousands of children become lifetime slaves to nicotine and their youthful error in judgment will cost at least one-third of them their life. Yes, there are habits associated with nicotine addiction but they result from our addiction forcing each of us to select regular feeding times."
SHIT. It happened, quitting became my religion.     Bumped into a collegue. Started talking about month 5 and 6, the grief cycle and Keeping The Quit. With my 'listen to me, this shit is SO important' face.  She drifted off and I fell silent. 'You know what, nevermind'. And we parted.       I need a smokeless antidote! A good portion of carelessness. Wanting my 'f... that' attitude back.               Edited March 12 by MLMR
    So take the bull by the horns and go do something that would have been completely foreign and unexpected for you in your former "smokers life".     I did that when going through a significant life change many years ago. Go shake things up cuz no one else is gonna do it for ya  It will make you feel alive again!     
    Spring is coming and your quit is gaining momentum.
On 3/3/2019 at 11:03 AM, jillar said:               Great update @MLMR, it's so great to watch you growing in your freedom from this addiction. And kudos to you for trying diving, I'm too chicken to try lol.     @reciprocity your smokers corner pic reminds me of the dark room thread. Hopefully someday they too will see the light   @jillar and @MLMR, I am a diver! With proper training it is a wonderful thing...so many amazing creatures and other sights to see! Would you believe that after every dive trip (usually about 2 hours total spent breathing underwater with a 1/2 hour or so surface interval on the boat between the dives...I would spend my surface time smoking a poison stick!! Ugh, when I think about that now....but at least I never threw any butts in the water.....kept 'em contained in an empty water bottle and disposed of them in the trash bin when back on land.
    'Everything you think you know about addiction is wrong' - Johann Hari      About rediscovering purpose, connection and all that. 
I think I miss smoking, because i am addicted. Its not because the weather is so nice, or because I miss a person. Its not because of anxiety, or smoking being some magic cure. Its because i am adicted to nicotine and therefor have all these associations and so I tend to believe my thoughts. I dont have to believe them. I can choose not to.      This is that particulair point in time, I have been here before. I can do this. Its 221 days now. Wouldnt want to throw that away, would I?         Smoking is not comforting, soothing, easing, whatever. Smoking is giving in to addiction and slowly killing myself. Wouldnt want that, would I?
    Hi sweetie .... You have this .!!!!.....Smoking does NOTHING ..for us ....xxx
    Thanks @Doreensfree. Got to get through this evening in one piece! 
6 minutes ago, MLMR said:               Thanks @Doreensfree. Got to get through this evening in one piece!              I have full faith in you MLMR. I know you're not going to blow that awesome 221 days, you got this girl!
Just woke up, had a smokey dream. One after another, not bothered at all.       It took me over 15 minutes after waking up to ditch the thought of failure and to realise it was just a dream! Only just gradually coming back again... ahhh, I didnt. It was only a dream and I am just as smokefree as I was yesterday or will be tomorrow! Working towards 8 months!
I think it was about 8 months in when I had my one and only smoking dream...woke up in a panic but realized within a few minutes (or maybe it was only seconds?) that it was a dream! I was so happy about that! God knows I did not want to ever have to start my quit over again.....keep it going, @MLMR, you are doing great!  Edited April 9 by Rozukilink
Just drove home after a long day at work.   The radio played this:  Ive loved that piece like forever.      Felt a rush of all things good: no more smoking misère, proud, relieved, thankfull and chuckling over the drama of the first 3, 4 months. How i never ever want ro re-do that.      As long as i can remember ive been short of breath . Combination of smoking and anxiety. For the first time ever i am starting to experience calm breathing. I eat more conciously.  I have fewer speeding tickets. I arive in time for work instead of rushing and still being late. Might sound dull,  but its actually what ive been longing for,  for so long .         Yeah. I am happy with quitting
    I'm glad you're seeing so many awesome benefits of quitting MLMR, thanks for sharing 
Sadly, my mom learned today that she's got a kidney tumor. It was discovered by accident,  because she was preparing for surgery and had a ctscan because of that. The positive news is that its only 4,5 cm, she will be called within 6 weeks to have it removed. Only then will they be able to tell about possible metastases.      Not one second did I concider smoking, though I am a bit in shock by this unexpected news. I guess its another opportunity to genuinely feel what there is to feel, instead of hiding behind a veil of smoke.
    Exactly MLMR - hiding behind that veil of smoke is what we all did, telling ourselves it helped us calm down and deal with life - ha, what a lie! We were hiding from life. It's good to just deal with things up front now isn't it?   I''m sorry to hear of your mother's issue. A good friend of mine was diagnosed with the same issue about a two years ago and he is now fit as a fiddle, Had one kidney removed and the other treated with chemo for a bit and is cancer free now so take heart and let's hope for the best in your Mom's case  
    Sorry to hear your Mum is going to have to through this ....but     Wow !!!!....I'm so proud of you .....high five....for not making this a reason to lose your fab quit ....
    MLMR, prayers for your mom.  She is so lucky to have you by her side.  You are becoming stronger every day.  You will get through this.
@reciprocity, it certainly is good to deal with life upfront. Better for me, better for her. And... glad I dont have to leave the room to light up. That would embarras me, but I'd still do it. Everything for that fix... Her surgery and therefor that ctscan were initially planned in october, so technically that thing has been discovered 6 months early.  Thats sheer luck. I have my hopes up for her story to end as well as your friend's.   @Doreensfree, thanks.  It may sound inappropriate, dont mean it like that, but I am really thankfull  to experience the result of my perseverance so far. It would be so, so shitty to have to battle urges right now, while I actually want to be there for my mom.    @Linda Thomas
    I am so sorry MLMR.     Mums are so precious and I hope for nothing but a positive outcome for yours.       Just look how far you have come. You faced and won challenge after challenge. Right now you're facing an enormous challenge and you're still smoke free.        You're pretty amazing really x
    Sorry to read this MLMR, so glad she got her ctscan now instead of waiting until October. Someone is looking over her  And good job realizing smoking would have done nothing but make you feel miserable! 
@Lilly, my relationship with my mom has never been the most momdaughterlovish .. thats what makes this even more difficult.  We have our challenges, to put it nicely. She's been through cancer before, many memories. Hopefully this wont be anywhere near that.   @jillar exactly. She got a call today, she's scheduled for the 29th of may to have it removed. Quicker than we initially thought,  nice!Edited May 3 by MLMR
    Thinking of you MLMR x
    Note to self.       Dont allow these wondering thoughts. Smoking isnt on the menu anymore, period.
1 hour ago, MLMR said:              Dont allow these wondering thoughts. Smoking isnt on the menu anymore, period.          It is funny that those thoughts do not enter my mind anymore, unless I am really f****cking mad.  I associate it with self destructive thoughts.    I have learned to release my anger and have used a few choice words that I never thought I would use.  I am hoping this too is just a phase and not an addiction!!!
@Linda Thomas       Im not sure what caused it last night. I found myself romancing smoking just a liiiitle bit, but it could have easily been the start of sabotaging my quit.         But.. away with that!        
5 hours ago, MLMR said:             but it could have easily been the start of sabotaging my quit.          We will have none of that girl.  You are doing awesome.  Keep posting when you feel like that.  We are here!!!!!!!
    Good job getting past that MLMR 
18 hours ago, MLMR said:                Note to self.                                       Dont allow these wondering thoughts. Smoking isnt on the menu anymore, period.              I wouldn't worry too much about thoughts, they come and they go.        Every thought has exactly as much power as we give it.      Just keep on keeping on.
13 minutes ago, Boo said:               Every thought has exactly as much power as we give it.      ^^^^^ This is it!       We all have thoughts about smoking. Our brains were conditioned for so long toward smoking activity that those thoughts just come to us even though we might be disgusted by the thought of smoking again. Providing you just dismiss those thoughts when they come to you, then all's fine. Dismissing those thoughts becomes easier and easier to do the further along your are in your quit.
    Well done on beating those thoughts. It's really tiring constantly battling so you did really well x
20 hours ago, Lilly said:               Well done on beating those thoughts. It's really tiring constantly battling so you did really well x            Lilly, I want to make clear that this really wasnt battling. They were just unexpected thoughts,  and I caught myself in not immediately dismissing them, like Ive been doing for almost 9 months now. So thats why I wrote that note to self.      Its been a few good months now since I thought of this proces as a battle.
2 hours ago, MLMR said:             Its been a few good months now since I thought of this proces as a battle.      The battle is over.     Victory is yours.
    Surprised by a strong cigarette-hot sunny day- pattern thought. Hush!       So, note to self:   Imagine the hot days where you were too short of breath to actually feel good. Remember the summer nights were you smoked so much while cursing yourself for throwing away all that money and for deliberately f*cking up your breathing. Think back at all those cigarettes you hated smoking but had too anyway. And how about dull stale  cigarette stench that always seemed to rise from the couch/car/jackets in the hall as soon as the weather grew hotter?     Yeah, exactly. Bye pattern, you dont fool me at nine months! 
Just brought my mom to the hospital for her surgery. And now... having like a thousand smokey memories. What do I need right now? Acknoledge that i feel a bit scared. Knowing that hospitals are yet unconquered triggers. Breath. I will not let this get a hold of me. 9+ months. I will keep going no matter what.
    You are a strong woman MLMR - so proud of you.      Sending lots of positive thoughts for you and your mum x
6 hours ago, MLMR said:             Just brought my mom to the hospital for her surgery. And now... having like a thousand smokey memories. What do I need right now? Acknoledge that i feel a bit scared. Knowing that hospitals are yet unconquered triggers. Breath. I will not let this get a hold of me. 9+ months. I will keep going no matter what.          Sending prayers for you and your mom.  She needs you strong MLMR so you can help her through this difficult journey.
6 hours ago, MLMR said:             Knowing that hospitals are yet unconquered triggers         And yet, you don't succumb to those triggers...well done!!!
    Positive thoughts coming your way for both you and your mom MLMR. Xoxo
Had the strangest week. First of, the surgery went fine and my mother is doing ok. Waiting for further results to come in next tursday. They, the doctors and nurses, are fast and professional and they have taken good care of her so far.    Smoking played a huge role in many of my thoughts and memories, for 4 or 5 days. I suspect the hospital visits triggered something old. At some point I even 'longed' for smoking, or so I thought... dismissing these thoughts didnt always do the trick. Working through them partly solved it. And then, last friday during a super bad mood, I had one of these moments where things just click and make sense (again). 'Better just accept it for what it is'. Sounds so simple and cliché, but honestly, it was bliss to realise once again that fighting whatever is presenting itself will not do the trick and will, in fact, make matters worse. I can have a thousand thoughts about smoking, but I wont light up. Thoughts are just that: thoughts. Because, in the end not lighting up is ALL that matters.    Last night I dreamt I smoked. As soon as I woke up, I knew it was just a dream and I am as smokefree as yesterday. Though it is a bit weird to have had such an addiction-dominated week... I am once again very grateful for not giving in. And for being this far in my quit proces.
    You are doing great MLMR, that old nicodemon sure puts up a fight though huh?! Glad you're mom's surgery went well  
    So glad your mom is doing well.  She is so lucky to have you by her side.  I am sure it is tough watching her go through that.  It is those difficult times that bring back the smoking memories.   MLMR, we are so much smarter and stronger.  You will keep that quit going.
Blowing steam off.      Had a sucky week. Some things happened at work and I dont know how to act on them. Some family matters on top of that et voila ...      This month is harder than the 9th. I keep having these thoughts and memories, where my brain goes like, ah screw it. Ofcourse, I wont. But it pisses me off to be at this point and have these stupid brainfarts. I just want to be done with it.       I dont want to miss my clean lungs.  I dont want to light one after another and feel guilty all the time. I dont want to die while riding my bike or hiking, because of oxygen lack.        It will be better again. I will make it past this stage, just as I did before. This is what it is for now, but change is on the way.
3 hours ago, MLMR said:             Had a sucky week            Me too MLMR.  Isn't it ridiculous how our minds drift off to the self destructive thoughts when we are down.  Thank goodness you and I are stronger than those thoughts.    Smoking is not our cure all.  Life is just one day at a time and you and I can do this together.  How is you mom doing? As for work, it is hard but it is better to leave it there at the end of the day.   You are doing great by posting.  We are here for you!
@Linda Thomas sorry to hear about your sucky week too. Yeah, its pretty weird how our brains work, right?       And about work, you couldnt be more right. Its strange, in some ways I am so much stronger since quitting but at the same time, i feel like I have to set my boundaries earlier than I used to. Or, maybe Ive been consistantly crossing them in the smokey past and this is where they actually are...? Anywayz,  today is a day where I keep reminding myself about the guaranteed positive outcome of quitting.      My mom is doing ok. Tumor removed, all clear. Thank goodness for that!       
Sorry about your sucky week you two, but glad you have this place to vent to and keep your awesome quits  I hope this week is better for you both, xoxoEdited June 17 by jillar
    Im in my car right now, about to go to work. The thoughts of smoking are so present, for days now. I keep telling myself to be proud of where I am but it just dont click. Its absurd how vivid the thoughts are. Got to push through now, it would be insanely sad to loose my quit. But why does it seem so... attractive?! Cant even remember to have felt this 'need' before... so far ive always been able to downgrade it too chemical processes, and this time i cant get passed, 'I dont care anymore, ive proven myself, just be done with doing your best, it would feel sooo good....        I am ashamed and yet this is it for now. I really do hope to pull myself out of this self-loathing misery and be proud again soon. 
4 hours ago, MLMR said:             I really do hope to pull myself out of this self-loathin            That is exactly what you are feeling.  Your feelings of self worth are sabotaging your quit.  I know you can't go back, while you are driving, and read parts of your journey but you are so full of wisdom and the gift of writing it.  I know that you are a wonderful person, worth saving.  You have chose a profession that helps others.  If you give into these feelings of self doubt and smoke, you would feel such disappointment.    Try to think of the huge accomplishment the past ten months have been.  You and I are so close in our quit, we are going to make it to that year mark together.  Just keep remembering that smoking is behind you and has no place in your future.  Hang in there.
    MLMR, I know I'm probably sounding like a broken record but those feelings you're having are completely normal. That's the purpose of the one year commitment. Especially as we near the first year mark. I felt the same as you, I did it! I can smoke a cigarette as my reward. Stupid huh?!  Just know that you're completely normal and that this too shall pass..... I promise, xoxo
Thanks @Linda Thomas. I realised today that I actually felt sorry for myself, for quitting and watching some (formerly quit!!!) collegues smoke... bleghh, the exact feeling ive been trying to kick in the butt for the past 10 months, with succes. And now suddenly I cant find the words, the ways to beat that emotion. Im romancing smoking and I know it, ohhhh my god    I have one big word in my mind and thats NOPE. No. Matter. What.    I really, really try not to fall for 'Its been 10 months already, why now and why with such intensity?'. Theres no proper answer to that anyway...
1 minute ago, jillar said:              MLMR, I know I'm probably sounding like a broken record but those feelings you're having are completely normal. That's the purpose of the one year commitment. Especially as we near the first year mark. I felt the same as you, I did it! I can smoke a cigarette as my reward. Stupid huh?!                  Just know that you're completely normal and that this too shall pass..... I promise, xoxo           But, month 7, 8 and 9 were a big home coming party! I felt so good, had cravings once in a while but, away with them! And i felt pride and so many good effects of quitting.... aghhhh
I will write a letter to myself again. I did that at some point where I had a real tough time, stuck the letter to my fridge back then. I think its time for a new one, fitting this phase. I need to ditch that sorry-feeling,  it doesnt suit me well, i cant use it. I am in my 11th month ffs. No way that I will lose this quit. And I also want to carry this part with dignity, as sucky as it is.Edited June 25 by MLMR
3 minutes ago, MLMR said:               But, month 7, 8 and 9 were a big home coming party! I felt so good, had cravings once in a while but, away with them! And i felt pride and so many good effects of quitting.... aghhhh              You'll feel good again MLMR, I promise. We have to remember that we smoked wayyyyy longer than we've been quit and these bad days WILL still come, even after your one year. The beauty of it now that you are this far along is that you know that you can get past the craves because you have for months and months now Distraction, distraction, distraction. I used to take a drive in my car to get a crave to go away because I didn't smoke in my car. Do stuff that you're used to doing that you never smoked doing. That worked really good for me
    This is just the dying embers of your addiction.    Do not take this to heart, it is just another neural pathway being diverted to the high road, the clean road.   Take stock and remember that you do not smoke.  Those days are long gone.  You are a new woman. Also, check yourself with with Red Flags.       I promise you, you will feel better.    S
1 hour ago, MLMR said:              Thanks @Linda Thomas. I realised today that I actually felt sorry for myself, for quitting and watching some (formerly quit!!!) collegues smoke... bleghh, the exact feeling ive been trying to kick in the butt for the past 10 months, with succes. And now suddenly I cant find the words, the ways to beat that emotion. Im romancing smoking and I know it, ohhhh my god                   I have one big word in my mind and thats NOPE. No. Matter. What.                    I really, really try not to fall for 'Its been 10 months already, why now and why with such intensity?'. Theres no proper answer to that anyway...  Don't feel sorry, feel proud you were able to quit one hellova addiction. These things will happen but as quitters we learn not to reach for them(ciggs)
Don't feel anything for those smokers except pity .....if you asked each one of them ...they would love to be were you are ,and have a fabulous 10 month quit ...   The only way you will win ...is keep on fighting ...one day ...your battle will be won ...keep trucking ......x
14 hours ago, MLMR said:                But why does it seem so... attractive?!             It can seem like our brain is working against us when we quit.  However, the brain is just doing what we trained it to do.  For years we told ourselves that cigarettes bring about relief and relaxation.  It makes sense that our brain would draw a connection between cigarettes and desirable results.     Now we've seen the light and understand that cigarettes offer us nothing positive.  However, those impulses that arise from years of conditioning take a bit of time to override.       It's a process.  Trust the process.
    Part of me felt shame for writing down the way I felt, but I am actually very glad I did. Thanks so much for you all popping in here, your answers, be it about holding on or offering the matter-of-fact-approach.  I dont have the words at this moment, but it means a lot to me.        Its a relief to be able again to see it as the neural proces it is. Im trying to figure out my HALT, and there's a few things to pay attention to. They have  NOTHING to do with smoking, and they need an approach of their own.       THANKS!              
It seems like the worst is over, finally. What a strange an unexpected phase. Once again, I feel stronger in my quit now that I 'got out'.      Sometimes I miss the big revelations I would have in the beginning, they gave me such power and confidence. It takes some effort to rely on what I learned back then and to stop disappointment from growing too strong sometimes.      But its comforting to look at everything I gained, not to convince myself of quitting, but simply to realise where I am compared to 10,5 months ago...      I eat differently, pay more attention to what and when I eat, I do chores in the house during the week instead of pushing myself raging through the house in the weekend and therefor my home feels much more like my own safe place, I sit when Im tired and when I cant, I just slow down a bit, I handle anxiety with compassion. Thát is probably the biggest gain... I am able to be with overwhelming emotions without beating myself up about it. That is huge and I should be celebrating it and embrace it with all the love I have in me, because how often did I not tell myself that Im not good enough? Repeatedly, year in year out? Ive probably set something in motion that will bring together all the stuff I learned in different therapies and treatments.     Uhm. That is something to be darn grateful about.    Edited July 6 by MLMR
    I'm happy the worst is over for you. Its also good that you focus on what you've gained from your quit. I suppose a reminder to oneself about why one quit smoking in the first place and looking at the gains, prevents one from becoming complacent and relapsing (just my opinion).
    That's right Ankush - never forget why you quit. That reason, whatever it might be, was powerful enough to move you to take on the biggest challenge of your life so ....... never forget what brought you to this point. It will continue to motivate you through the entire process.
1 hour ago, reciprocity said:               never forget why you quit           Yup, also thinking "I got a decent quit timeline going, I don't want to start from Day 1 all over again. Besides, I don't what to go through the whole process of the initial days of quitting again.", may help
    MLMR, so glad the struggle is finally over.  You are finally there and realize life as a nonsmoker.  It truly has no place in our lives and our lives are so much better without it.  
    I love hearing about the lagniappe of benefits people experience.   Quitting smoking really is life changing and your documentation have been a beacon to many.  
@MLMR, I'm really glad to read your last post and see how well you're doing now. I don't know if you know just how much this thread of yours can help others who think they can't quit because of their depression or anxiety. You are proof that they can Maybe, you can think about moving this thread back to the main board for others who are on the fence about quitting?
10 hours ago, jillar said:  @MLMR, I'm really glad to read your last post and see how well you're doing now. I don't know if you know just how much this thread of yours can help others who think they can't quit because of their depression or anxiety. You are proof that they can Maybe, you can think about moving this thread back to the main board for others who are on the fence about quitting? I agree! This thread should be available to all who might be afraid to quit for the reasons Jillar pointed out, assuming MLMR approves that is.     Non members (people exploring the forum to see if they think it might help them) don't have access to the "Off The Record" page.
    I can see why it would be helpful for people, but I acutally feel quite comfortable in this corner, to be honest.       I think I'll hang out here just a little bit longer. 
23 minutes ago, MLMR said:              I can see why it would be helpful for people, but I acutally feel quite comfortable in this corner, to be honest.                                       I think I'll hang out here just a little bit longer.        You got to do what's best for you MLMR
    of course, do everything you need to do to protect yourself and protect your quit.  I understand you don't want these epistles on front street, I am just grateful they are here because they are so very valuable. I flipped my wig when they were first moved, thinking they were gone.    
I. Am. Just. Soooo. Done. With. The. Thoughts. And. Memories. And. Everything. Related. To. Smoking.        Why, in the name of everything thats devine,  does it take this long? And WHY is this last quarter of my first year so terribly challenging?     Edited July 10 by MLMR
    Patience.   and dogged determination.   Free your head. Don't give smoky thoughts any energy.   They will fade.
@MLMR, the whole first year was really tough for me too. Please keep reminding yourself that you smoked for wayyyyy more years than you've been quit so it makes sense that this addiction isn't going to die as easily as we would like it too. After the first year though it does get so much better. Hang tough girl, you're almost there, xoxo
    Oh MLMR.  You are doing so great.  If I was there, I would be screaming right there with you.  That is what friends do.
    Like @jillar, the first year was hard for me too, and in retrospect, I made it harder on myself by  indulging too many smokey thoughts.  I should have snuffed them immediately.     
On 12/5/2018 at 5:05 PM, Doreensfree said:              ML...has asked me to move this thread to Off The Record.....x           And now I ask you to move it back to 'Quit Smoking Discussions' again. Thanks!      I am ready for it       I just read the whole thing again... whoops, did I travel far, or what?!        And the best part is, if I can, you most definitely can too!Edited July 15 by MLMR
Great news M !  This thread of your quit is an incredible truthful document and will have far reaching effects. I am so glad you feel ready to bring it back to the world.  Thank you.Edited July 15 by Sazerac
    I'm glad you changed your mind ....if it helps folks ...you have done a wonderful thing .!!!!
    Thanks Doreen! I actually just thought about it, originally I started this thread in the introduction section (hence the title haha). Maybe its better at its place there? 
    Glad you decided to put this in a page that can be accessed by everyone. It's an honest testament to the struggle we all go through in trying to establish our quits and what makes it special is that you were successful in doing just that all the while leaving a trail of bread crumbs for others to follow. We all have said at some point or other; "If I can quit, anyone can!" Well, you actually wrote it all down and showed new quitters how you did it!    Good Job!    
@MLMR, I think this is a great place for your thread because it shows your whole journey  
    @MLMR, great to see your accomplishment.  You've done so well.
I have to chime in and tell you, @MLMR, glad you reconsidered...this whole thread you started to introduce yourself will be so helpful to many as they struggle through the first weeks and months of this life-changing quit journey. Carry on, keep calm...and above all, KTQ! Edited July 15 by Rozuki
☆ Happy stats ☆     It's been 329 days and 22 hrs since I quit. I saved 2309 euro's (Yeah. Its all there ). I avoided smoking 7258 cigarettes. And I'm on 90.4% of my very first year smoke free.       I fit my pre-quitting pants again. My last SOS was on the 1st of april. Breathing still improving, in fact, Im finally learning to breath deep without anxiety taking over. Oh, how frustrated I was the first half year when people kept telling me to breath conciously, yet that would only induce panick.       Each time I conquer a short or longer period of Junkie Thinking, my relief and awareness of homecoming grows exponentially. This is so friggin' worth everything!    Edited July 18 by MLMR
    Way to go MLMR you are really starting to see the overall benefits of quitting --- great job!!!!!
    I can't begin to express how valuable reading this thread is to a rookie. MLMR, you are my scout and my inspiring hero. I Thank You.
There's one thing that absolutely motivates me to KTQ and that is that I never ever can be sure I would attempt another quit. And if so, how that would work out.   Some time ago... I remember being well into the first year, so extremely proud. I took great pride in quitting, really on top of the world after every crave I conquered. One year became one and a half, two and finally three. I actually inspired some friends: if she can, why not us? Time went by, I hardly ever missed my nicotine killer. And I actually felt... great. But then I did the unthinkable. Smoked a (tobacco)joint during a festival, afterwards a cigarette. Because, what the hell and tomorrow no one will remember (ah, but no. The real reasons ofcourse were some left over receptors going bonkers). The music died out, people crawled into their tents. The next morning I had coffee with a cig. And though I kept a straight and tough girl face, I knew at that point it all had been for nothing. Shame and self doubt made its way back into my mind.    Fast forward, six or seven years later .. august 22, 2018... it had to be now or never. This time around, things were different. Lots of bumps in the road, none of that first timers pride. I had to work to feel proud, I literally had to create happines around this whole event. On a few occasions it was like my world was falling apart and I had to get it from idontknowwhere. Ofcourse it hasnt all been straight forward misery, but no way is it comparable to these previous three years of quitting. And let that be my guide then. I will never ever want to do this again, ever. I will not grieve and crave a cigarette. I will not cry over a crashed relationship again while aching for a smoke. I wont have any guaranteed life happenings be affected by the thought of cigarettes. I will never ever let that mf nicotine mess up my soul again and I am prepared to make this a life time thing. Because I want to be as free as free can be.Edited July 25 by MLMR
    Imagine: living as long as you remember with a roommate who, for no apparant reason, yells at you and calls you names. He thinks youre the stinkiest, nastiest, most stupid person ever to have set foot on this planet. 'Any day now, girl, any day now.. the world will discover the imposter you really are. You c*nt'   You roommate wont tell you about his daily schedule and you have literally no idea what his business is. He can show up for no reason and make your day miserable as hell. The best part for your roommate is the moment where you loose it and start to hurt yourself out of sheer misery: just to target your despair. He then turns silent and looks at you with a content smile, slowly backing off, retreating behind a door which you have never been through.    Well, obviously I live with this roommate and obviously he doesnt truly exist. Yet, I hear his voice very clear, almost every day. Ive tried fighting the little fellow with all sorts of therapies and medication. We made agreements, we stuck it out, I found ways to do my job while still dealing with this guy. Me and my family healed together, yet this roommate stays. He changes with every trauma I manage to clear , but... he's always there and probably will be for some time.  Ok, on-topic. What I want to say is simply this: if I can quit smoking, surely you can too. And if I have the benefits... surely you do too!    What you are up to, are just bloody receptors. Its their job to make it personal: grief, sadness, joy, boredom etc. And its your job to recognize this and act, by not acting on it: dont light up. Its truly a waist of time to wonder 'why everybody can quit but me'. We all can. Even I can, when being haunted by this shit-ass voices, these beliefs, and everything that comes along with living with it. Smoking is something that I never, éver want to incorporate again. I really do believe each day now gets me closer to where I want to be. Gradually I will be able to relax about it, without loosing my vigilance and guard. I look forward to be done with this once and for all. But you know what? The rewards are so abundant that I gladly keep my promis to myself alive, for each and every day to come. If thats what it takes, so be it.     How about you?  P.s. sorry about the heavy note. Cheering has never been my strong suit. Ahum. That smiley ^^ , I put it there on purpose.
    MLMR, you have come a long way.  You recognize that roommate and have take the necessary steps to deal with him and to top that, you have quit smoking.   You are a super hero!
Love this, truly hits home.  I really like the way you have been documenting recently especially as you get closer to that 1 year mark.  Very well said, very well done!!!!!!
    Take a bow, MLMR.  You're a champion.
    I'm so proud of how far you've come MLMR, I just hope that you are as proud of yourself as we are. And thank you from the bottom of my heart for this journal. Xoxo
4 hours ago, MLMR said:             Imagine: living as long as you remember with a roommate who, for no apparant reason, yells at you and calls you names. He thinks youre the stinkiest, nastiest, most stupid person ever to have set foot on this planet. 'Any day now, girl, any day now.. the world will discover the imposter you really are. You c*nt'           You roommate wont tell you about his daily schedule and you have literally no idea what his business is. He can show up for no reason and make your day miserable as hell. The best part for your roommate is the moment where you loose it and start to hurt yourself out of sheer misery: just to target your despair. He then turns silent and looks at you with a content smile, slowly backing off, retreating behind a door which you have never been through.            Well, obviously I live with this roommate and obviously he doesnt truly exist. Yet, I hear his voice very clear, almost every day. Ive tried fighting the little fellow with all sorts of therapies and medication. We made agreements, we stuck it out, I found ways to do my job while still dealing with this guy. Me and my family healed together, yet this roommate stays. He changes with every trauma I manage to clear , but... he's always there and probably will be for some time.          Ok, on-topic. What I want to say is simply this: if I can quit smoking, surely you can too. And if I have the benefits... surely you do too!            What you are up to, are just bloody receptors. Its their job to make it personal: grief, sadness, joy, boredom etc. And its your job to recognize this and act, by not acting on it: dont light up. Its truly a waist of time to wonder 'why everybody can quit but me'. We all can. Even I can, when being haunted by this shit-ass voices, these beliefs, and everything that comes along with living with it. Smoking is something that I never, éver want to incorporate again.         I really do believe each day now gets me closer to where I want to be. Gradually I will be able to relax about it, without loosing my vigilance and guard. I look forward to be done with this once and for all. But you know what? The rewards are so abundant that I gladly keep my promis to myself alive, for each and every day to come. If thats what it takes, so be it.             How about you?          P.s. sorry about the heavy note. Cheering has never been my strong suit. Ahum. That smiley ^^ , I put it there on purpose.                          I really enjoy your way of writting you know ?  You're the type of person I'd love to read its personal diary.      Trully inspirational.
20 hours ago, MLMR said:                I really do believe each day now gets me closer to where I want to be. Gradually I will be able to relax about it, without loosing my vigilance and guard.          I look forward to be done with this once and for all. But you know what?                    The rewards are so abundant that I gladly keep my promis to myself alive, for each and every day to come. If thats what it takes, so be it.             Keep training your brain and it will continue to serve you. You are coming close to a full year, M !    You WILL be able to relax.  You will be able to trust yourself and allow your thoughts to focus on other things without loosing vigilance.      Still, I keep my promise to myself alive each and every day. This is no burden.  It is triumphant.
21 hours ago, Warbelian said:               You're the type of person I'd love to read its personal diary.          Ha, dont you think this is personal enough?  But, thanks! Edited July 31 by MLMR
5 hours ago, Sazerac said:                                                      Keep training your brain and it will continue to serve you.                 You are coming close to a full year, M !                    You WILL be able to relax.  You will be able to trust yourself and allow your thoughts to focus on other things without loosing vigilance.                                      Still, I keep my promise to myself alive each and every day. This is no burden.  It is triumphant.                              I know you are right. Sounds like heaven! I will get there.
    I'm so proud of you @MLMR...your journey has shown ,what truly can be achieved ,if you want it bad enough.  Looking forward to your Lido Party x
I went away this weekend, with friends. We had laughs, good talks, great hikes, everything was there. And I had literally zero thoughts of smoking. Jup. Just like that.    I am exited about being smoke free for almost one year. A year! That seemed like forever, not too long ago..    Oh and what a journey! Edited August 6 by MLMR
    The benefits and rewards will continue to delight you, M.   I am so glad you are enjoying your freedom.
On 8/7/2019 at 5:03 AM, MLMR said:              I went away this weekend, with friends. We had laughs, good talks, great hikes, everything was there. And I had literally zero thoughts of smoking. Jup. Just like that.            I am exited about being smoke free for almost one year. A year! That seemed like forever, not too long ago..            Oh and what a journey!          I love this ....I think the magic has happened...
@MLMR Another 2 weeks, and you will have conquered one year
One doesnt make this shit up. Unbelievable! Had a scare party at 4 AM..         What I love about this: its not in the slightest way tempting to  light up after this dream. Nope, the shock is only proof of my huge investment of the past year.      Yihaa, 358 days!     Edited August 15 by MLMR
    Oh yea MLMR, I totally remember waking after a bad dream and instantly going and having a smoke. So glad to be past that too!  
    You got this girl.  Your special day is just around the corner.     Isn't this a wonderful feeling?   Smoking is now a remnant of our past.  
So! Exactly twelve months ago, after introducing myself, someone on this board asked me: 'Why wait any longer? Quit now!'. (The plan was 24-08-2019). And so I quit that day, the 22nd of august.       Did it go as I expected? Not at all. Am I happy about the outcome? Yes, yes and yes!        What I expected and remembered from a previous 3year-quit, was struggle, revelation after revelation, strength, bliss and eternal happines. What I experienced this time was a true rollercoaster,which I never ever intent to go through again. I've sos-ed many times, I wrote, I read and studied, Ive fought real hard to keep my sanity at some points.. I yelled at the addiction, I cursed it. And I loved every single minute where I knew I was doing the right thing. Ive had many night time conversations with some friends on this board, these were a big part of what dragged me through. Reading back through everything brings tears to my eyes, because its about my no.1 challenge with quitting: I was so afraid of loosing connection with myself and then just giving up. And I found connection here with you guys and that made me re-establish the connection with myself.         This recent month, things have moved ahead altogether more quickly. I know 'the magic is happening', to quote Doreen. I could write down an endless list of pro's, but I think it come's down to these three: self respect, breathing and health. It feels so, só good to leave the struggle behind, to be at peace with smokey memories.. whatever comes my way I'll be able to face head-on. This journey won't end here, that much I know.       Thank you for being there for me and each other, for providing so much information, support, hugs, tough love, fun. It's been an amazing time and I am absolutely grateful to have 'met' you all. And I hope you, newbie who reads this,  realise quitting smoking is possible. You have it in you, as I do, as we all do.       Edited August 22 by MLMR
    Just so you have all your parties in one portal, MCome On Peeps !   andThe Lido Deck Welcomes MLMR
Things are taking shape here, literally: I lost 15lbs of food love and it feels great! I took my first yoga class ever this evening, because I am finding out I truly have breathing issues. I will be doing this once a week from now on. And don't be fooled.. its friggin' tough! Ive had the hair bun for years already, so that comes in handy right now.  Now that the leaves are changing colours, I made a mood boosting list to be in time, once and for all. The list includes the infamous SADlamp, baking cinnamon apple pies, taking daily 30' walks, exercizing with breathing, doing projects that involve smell, taste, touch and hearing etc. And most importantly, being NICE to myself. I know, this all sounds a bit Psychology Magazine-ish... but well... screw that!     I have a feeling that I'm spot on, this time. And quitting smoking played a huge role. I am going to continue this second year with so much more confidence, what a difference. Keep on keeping on, its worth it all!Edited September 4 by MLMR
That is wonderful to hear MLMR.   I am also working on those extra 25 pounds I gained during my quit.  I am doing a two mile walk every day.    I don't think your post sounds Magazinish.  It sounds like you are confident, happy and healthier.
25 minutes ago, MLMR said:              cinnamon apple pies,            Sorry, this is all I heard .....................
2 hours ago, MLMR said:             I have a feeling that I'm spot on, this time. And quitting smoking played a huge role.                  I am going to continue this second year with so much more confidence, what a difference.                    Keep on keeping on, its worth it all!               You are spot on, for sure M.  You can trust in yourself now, the days of poison are over.       This next year will bring you so much goodness !
On 9/4/2019 at 11:19 PM, Linda Thomas said:               LI am also working on those extra 25 pounds I gained during my quit.  I am doing a two mile walk every day.               Yeah!   Isnt it fantastic where we are right now,  compared to last year? I mean... I just woke up, have the day off and plenty plans for today. Usually I made coffee, smoked at least three cigarettes, maybe just one more, and then started doing something, probably taking a shower, and then right after that rushing to ... smoking... the smoke cycle, all day long...
    Yaaaa.....The magic keeps on -a- comin .......
    Tomorrow Im off to Portugal.    Very happy to:  • be packing my suitcase without a rush • have enough money for this trip   • look around at the airport and enjoy the buzz, instead of being on the lookout for a smoking zone • have energy, walk walk walk, enjoy every single moment perfectly happy without a cigarette, climbing steep streets with enough air.... And so much more!      Funny, while writing this, its actually a bit awkward to say the words 'cigarette' and 'smoking' more than once... they truly moved to a section in my brain where theres not much activity anymore.        Yet, I want to focus from time to time on the effects and rewards of quitting by writing here. Because, this quit is meant to last!
    Tudo Bem !       
@MLMR  we have the same anniversary. 
    Have a great smoke free holiday sweetheart ...Portugal is lovely ....
    Coming here, bc I need to.. having smokey thoughts and a difficult time adressing them properly. There's wine, there's arguments, there's this typical 'holiday tension' thing... how on earth can it seem like a cigarette would solve all of that right now? This seems like a major, major  case of examining HALT.. ?
    OMG MLMR!  Don't give into those nasty thoughts.  You have come to far.  I guess that is why we will always be addicts because it creeps upon us when unexpe ted.  Just breath gurl.  This too shall pass.
1 hour ago, MLMR said:              Coming here, bc I need to.. having smokey thoughts and a difficult time adressing them properly. There's wine, there's arguments, there's this typical 'holiday tension' thing... how on earth can it seem like a cigarette would solve all of that right now? This seems like a major, major  case of examining HALT.. ?                   You know better than to let go of your power.   **** cigarettes.    Drink some cafe, have a Pastel de Belém
5 hours ago, MLMR said:             how on earth can it seem like a cigarette would solve all of that right now?                The lies of addiction that we accepted as gospel truth can, and usually will, linger around long after we ash out that last cigarette.  Decades of addiction and conditioning has a way of making straight lines crooked.       The only answer is: remind yourself that it is a lie.  The whole smoking cycle is built upon a foundation of lies.  The goal of quitting is not to eliminate the lies of the past.  The goal is to see the lies for what they are and commit to never step in that trap again.
    Good on you for posting MLMR, this too shall pass and it will be yet another hurdle conquered, xoxo
    Keep thinking about how happy you've been lately to be smoke free, and you'll be back there before you know it and these passing thoughts will be long gone.  
    New location and situation for you likely so those thoughts get dredged up from somewhere deep in your subconscious maybe? In any case, handle it the same way you did in the thick of your quit. You managed to use logical thought then to figure out what the truths were and which path to follow. I have complete faith that you will do the same now because you are a nonsmoker and want to remain one for life - right?              
    I appreciate your answers a lot, thanks so much. I hate it, to have these strong thoughts about smoking after such a long time.     I dont really know what else to say, but it didnt seem right to say nothing at all.. so...yeah.          
"I appreciate your answers a lot, thanks so much. I hate it, to have these strong thoughts about smoking after such a long time.    I dont really know what else to say, but it didnt seem right to say nothing at all.. so...yeah"         How long did you smoke ?    Understand that smoking changed your DNA    and imprinted itself in every particle of your being for how many years ?   You have been quit a year and a month.  What is the ratio of freedom vs. addiction ?    See ?       Oh good, I just found Cristóbal's post about this, it is good.Cristóbal's Quit Days %       Don't 'hate' the thoughts, that gives them too much power.  Acknowledge them and blow them away like a dandelion.Edited September 26 by Sazerac
Been trying to write something for some time now, but kept postponing.          Quitting..  it becomes more and more a 'far from my bed show' as we say in Holland. And yet, almost on a daily basis Im aware  of the impact it has on me.      Still entering new fases, still have moments of utter joy about quitting and what it does for me, still have the occasional 'Id like one now' moment, but so so soooo minor in comparison to everything good about quitting...      Words that cross my mind when I think about what good it does to me, are: steadier, more relaxed, able to tell people to wait and 'let me get back at you', gradually coming home in my body and mind.. trusting the proces,  a healthier relationship with food.       I quit before, for over 3 years. But... never did I expect the journey to be like this, when 14 months ago I decided it was time to quit, once and for all, etc.  It makes me even more sure about never lighting up again..  for all I know this was my last chance...  the nicotine industry wont own me as a slave no more. Because I feel so much better without.                    Edited November 1 by MLMR
8 minutes ago, MLMR said:               Been trying to write something for some time now, but kept postponing.                                          Quitting..  it becomes more and more a 'far from my bed show' as we say in Holland. And yet, almost on a daily basis Im aware  of the impact it has on me.                                      Still entering new fases, still have moments of utter joy about quitting and what it does for me, still have the occasional 'Id like one now' moment, but so so soooo minor in comparison to everything good about quitting...                                      Words that cross my mind when I think about what good it does to me, are: steadier, more relaxed, able to tell people to wait and 'let me get back at you', gradually coming home in my body and mind.. trusting the proces,  a healthier relationship with food.                                       I quit before, for over 3 years. But... never did I expect the journey to be like this, when 14 months ago I decided it was time to quit, once and for all, etc.  It makes me even more sure about never lighting up again..  for all I know this was my last chance...  the nicotine industry wont own me as a slave no more. Because I feel so much better without.       Great post.         Congratulations on your quit and thanks for sharing.        I love seeing others commit to the process and then reap the rewards for their effort.
    I too love this post....    You have had a wonderful journey ...I'm so proud of you ....and happy I was with you every step of the way. The rewards still keep coming ...   Your a insperation....
    My sentiments exactly. I'm honored to share your journey with you too 
17 hours ago, MLMR said:                Been trying to write something for some time now, but kept postponing.                                          Quitting..  it becomes more and more a 'far from my bed show' as we say in Holland. And yet, almost on a daily basis Im aware  of the impact it has on me.                                      Still entering new fases, still have moments of utter joy about quitting and what it does for me, still have the occasional 'Id like one now' moment, but so so soooo minor in comparison to everything good about quitting...                                      Words that cross my mind when I think about what good it does to me, are: steadier, more relaxed, able to tell people to wait and 'let me get back at you', gradually coming home in my body and mind.. trusting the proces,  a healthier relationship with food.                                       I quit before, for over 3 years. But... never did I expect the journey to be like this, when 14 months ago I decided it was time to quit, once and for all, etc.  It makes me even more sure about never lighting up again..  for all I know this was my last chance...  the nicotine industry wont own me as a slave no more. Because I feel so much better without.                                                                                                           Quitting smoking is often an opportunity to examine deeper into ourselves.  Accepting the truth that we are nicotine addicts leads to accepting other truths and of recognizing truths without denial.  This has been one of the greatest gifts that my quit has given me, that I have given myself.    The honesty to delve deep, the compassion to accept and learn to understand what I find in my excavations...        It has been remarkable to learn about your journey which, in many ways, resembles all of our journeys.  I thank you for your awareness, your honesty and your willingness to express your journey here, M.
    I like to read the updates of ppl on this train! It's motivating and hopeful!   Thank you fellow dutchie! 
Ai, actually just had a receptor turning in it's grave. No apparant reason, I think I'll stash it under 'Brains Whatever'. It was a darn sturdy receptor though. Shush, go back to your beautiful sleep now.        Counting the days and noticing its been exactly 15 months since I quit. I think I'll treat myself today!     Edited Friday at 12:36  AM by MLMR
    This is exactly how to handle these rogue receptors...reward them with a delight as you reclaim them all !
1 hour ago, Sazerac said:               This is exactly how to handle these rogue receptors...reward them with a delight as you reclaim them all !          Think I got myself a pretty good delight (@leatherjacket in sales)
    That'll teach those damn cravings that pop up out of nowhere! Cute jacket 
For me, I always wished that I was not addicted to Nicotine,  and I alway planned to stop some day,  just not that day... The thing that got to me was my young son reading the health warning and crying because it said smoking kills. He asked if it would kill me.  I told him that it wouldn't kill me. He asked why it wouldn't?..... I was speechless.  He had called me out on my own delusions.  He pulled my head out of my cosy sand pit and made me face it head on.  I told him it wouldn't kill me because I wasn't going to do it anymore.  I planned to quit on new years eve.  But woke the following morning (21st Dec 2011) and could not smoke. The protective Father in me could not put one more puff of smoke into my body. I realised that I had just succeeded,  that I had quit.
I always wished that I was not addicted to Nicotine too, but in my case i was good rugby and soccer player and im im trying to get back to top training and competition. Also health and skin coghing among many things! 
For a variety of reasons actually.  Being diagnosed at 37 with mild COPD (bronchitis/emphysema), my son picking up one and pretending to smoke, that constant annoying cough that never went away; I could go on and on, but those top the list.  By the way, that annoying cough?  Gone within a week of quitting  :D
When I admitted to myself that smoking was more important than anything in my life.  That was unacceptable to me but it was true.  I left my children in the house while I went outside to smoke many times per day.  I smoked while driving with the window down, dumb enough to think they weren't breathing any of it.  They watched me smoke.  Yet I continued on knowing what I was doing to my health and that I was cutting their time down with me. My Dr. told me "don't sit here and tell me that your daughter is the most important thing in your life because she's not.  Cigarettes are."  That was a tough pill to swallow but after I thought about it and what he said to me, he was right.  I couldn't let my addiction to smoking come before my family ever again.  Never again will my children smell smoke on my breath or see me with a cigarette dangling from my mouth.  Never.
I am not sure how to answer the question What made you decide to quit.  I have always wanted to quit I have always known that smoking is not good for you.  I have always known that my second hand smoke was not good for other people. I have tried to quit many times without success. I have always known that I should quit. This time there was really no choice I did not have to decide to quit .. I had to quit  for me.  Okay I am going to say I did not make this choice until I joined the quit train. I would not have done it otherwise.  :)
There are many reasons to quit. I think what finally made me quit was me realizing that I couldn't justify smoking anymore. I was standing outside, sick, smoking away. I'd take a drag and cough like crazy. I couldn't understand why I was doing this to myself. So I quit. What kept me motivated was family, my age, health, and money. I was only 25 when I quit and I was already so scared of the damage I did to my body. I saw so many loved ones struggle with emphysema and COPD. It scared me to think I might get that way.  I also thought of how much time I wasted smoking and how I could have been spending it with the people I loved. Those minutes are precious to me, because you never know what's going to happen or if there will even be a tomorrow.
I was only 25 when I quitYou have given yourself the gift of a lifetime.  I wish I had quit so long ago.   Please never go back.  Your so young and you can undo everything smoking has done to you.   Never ever go back to poisoning yourself.  No.  Matter.  What.
Cause I felt like it :) 
My oldest son begging me to quit and my teeth were suffering.
The Doc and Impending Decrepitude convinced The Sarge that it was time.  Easy Peasy
So many reasons, had been trying on and off for a number of years, knew it was not good for me, but clung onto the "it wont happen to me" syndrome for as long as I could, my oldest son started smoking, didn't faze me, then my youngest told me I would die if I continued and partner told me he and my children need me, simples , my health was suffering too, scared of having a heart attack, my mum took angina at 51 and fast approaching that age, the cost of cigarettes I could no longer justify being heavily in debt and burning money so so many reasons, but mainly I wanted to quit for me.
I have 2 people in my life that I would die for...... I am quitting smoking for those same 2 people.  Except this time, I want to live for them.
This is the 3rd time today I have tried to answer this. I quit because I got scared. I am pretty ashamed I didn't quit for the children I love so much, or to set an example to others I love so long ago. I quit because it was beyond time and I had run out of excuses. I won't smoke again but will spend a lifetime trying to make up for being such a selfish idiot.
I quit for Freedom. How could an apparently intelligent man, in charge of all aspects of his life, wilfully kill himself slowly and allow an addiction to dictate his life....
I quit because I was at risk of having my feet amputated....and being in a wheel chair.....Also,watching my hubby with severe c.o.p.d....on oxygen 16hours a day....also in a wheel chair when he leaves the house.....This scared the crap out of me.....
There was a domino-effect-thing that was going on that led up to my quit.-Hubby quit smoking. He was my final smoking buddy in the family. (I was so mad. Not supportive at all. I was a selfish, addicted beeotch) :(-My lifelong best friend died.....as a direct result of smoking. The cancer did things to her beautiful face that would make you cry and possibly vomit if I described in detail. :(-Then....the happy reason.......my first grandbaby was born :) I didnt ever want him to know me as the grandma who smelled like an ashtray. Or the sick grandma. Or the grandma who couldnt run, or was on oxygen. Nope.....he will never know a smoking grandma.  
I quit for me as I didn`t want it to be who I wasI quit as I think I have dodged a bullet for so long and don`t want to play Russian Roulette with my life anymoreI saw my dad die just 6 years older than I am now with lung cancerI am seeing my mum so disabled from smoking related diseases - I do not want that for meI love my loved ones around me and want to be seen to fight for my freedom (that ones for you jess)
I was sick and went to Doctor after no smoking for a couple of days due to a sore throat and he said, you have already quit, try to keep it going and I did! Almost 6 months later and never looked back! But it took a honest try, no back up smokes or stash of emergency smokes, just do it attitude!
    Bump
After a trip to CA where smoking was problematic and a coughing fit on the aeroplane,   I decided not to light up when I landed and see if I could quit smoking as a challenge to myself.       Googled everything about quitting, nicotine, cold turkey and luckily found Joel Spitzer.    Lurked here and there and 10 months into my quit, I jumped on QTrain.
Hello fellow quitters and lurkers!  For those residing in the US,  the most wonderful time of the year is upon us.  We are scheduled to grossly overeat a week from today.  More than usual.        While doing so, we will  be giving thanks for:  our perfect families, the variety of enchanting edibles available to all guests. This includes gluten free, dairy free, vegetarian, nut- free, organic, non-lumpy gravy, red white and rosé offerings from the cellar, mashed cauliflower, stuffing and/or dressing with and without cornbread, with and without oysters, with and without pecans.  Cranberry sauce from a can & some homemade. We rejoice to sample the doctored brussels sprouts sautéed in duck fat with charred gizzards (I don’t think charred gizzards is a thing. I added for even more dramatic effect).  Your football team will win Saturday!         We celebrate our hard working co-workers. We enjoy delightful conversations with kind strangers in the 10 mile long line at the grocery store.    Holiday cheer is real and abounds in our hearts and homes.  We bought the perfect gifts for everyone  on clearance last year so we have extra cash and no gift buying stress.     If your life is this easy going with zero holiday stress- congratulations !!  You are super human and I need your autograph!        Forced family functions,  imbibing in too much merriment, living through the season when someone you loved and lost is not-     are all fuel that could send you to the store for that one pack to get you through it all.  Or, the kindling to bum a smoke from your boss at the holiday party.        Have your plan in place.  Newbies and old phartes (more seasoned quitters) are both at risk for losing a quit to stress, to feeling nostalgic for past celebrations.        Don’t lose your quit. Embrace it. Celebrate it. Protect it. Be thankful for it!!        Gobble til you wobble.  Watch the game.         Don’t smoke.        NOPE!!      L4L
    Great post lust, this will be a hard holiday season for my family so thank you for this timely reminder to KTQ! 
    I love this post also.  Spending time with my family, during the holidays, is enough to drive me crazy but not drive me back to smoking.  It amazes me that I am no longer a smoker. I will take the time to NOPE the rest of my life!!!!!!!
I started a thread almost three years ago about quitting cold turkey and how much dis-information was out there when I first quit.  I was so fortunate to find Joel Spitzer.Now, it seems, the dis-information is even more ubiquitous...        here is a link to WhyQuit for resources about quitting Cold Turkey      and my original post from 2016, Quitting Smoking Cold Turkey    I am fully aware that my choice of quitting cold turkey is not for everyone but, education about addiction and all methods of quitting should be forefront,  especially those methods that do not involve Big Tobacco as in gum/patches* and vaping*    Education is freedom.  Knowledge is power.  *The Shady Link Between Big Tobacco and Nicotine Gum*Big Tobacco Lobbied To Save Vaping, Now Controls Leading E-Cigarette Company           Edited Wednesday at 11:49  AM by Sazerac
I quit Cold Turkey this time around - including after my one day failure at 3 weeks (Grrrr) . As I had a bit of a medical scare, quitting smoking was a non negotiable thing with me .  I have just tried to not allow myself to feel sorry for myself and it has been quite easy this time .
@Steve63 you are spot on to change your attitude about your quit! That's what's helped me to be successful this time around. We can't feel sorry for ourselves--we aren't missing out on anything! Smoking is not something to be missed. Once we realize that, we have won half the battle!
The first time I read Allen Carr's Easyway, I remember reading the bit about waking up in the morning and saying "Yippee!  I am a nonsmoker!" and thinking it was just plain goofy.  I was wrong. Last night I listened to a podcast featuring Dave Asprey interviewing neuroscientist Robert Cooper.  Cooper spoke of the importance of "tripping the switch" in your brain during the first twenty-two minutes of the day.  This time is vital as it marks the most significant shift from the subconscious to the conscious during the day.  What you think and how you think during the first twenty-two minutes in the morning sets the tone for the rest of your day. Thought processes change throughout the day and it is impossible to plan for all the external factors that affect our mindset.  However, "aiming the brain" in the right direction first thing in the morning sets a positive path for the rest of the day. This goes against my nature, but out of respect to Mr. Carr...YIPPEE! 
I love this! Totally spot on. You can change so many aspects of your life (including reinforcing being a happier non smoker) in the morning. Upon waking to be think of how thankful you are, even if it's just one thing. Just doing this one thing can seriously transform your day and eventually it becomes habit and you can lift your moods very naturally to face each day with a positive mindset. x
YIPPEE, I'm a Non-Smoker!!!
Easy to believe.  
Love this post!   Yippee indeed.  I'll be giving this a try.  Thanks Boo.
Great info Boo , I'm going to use this reinforcement technique when I have my coffee sans ciggie in the morning no matter how grumpy I'm feeling lol 
Boo...thanks for the reminder... after 52 years...I'm a fantastic non smoker..Great post...
I love this! Totally spot on. You can change so many aspects of your life (including reinforcing being a happier non smoker) in the morning. Upon waking to be think of how thankful you are, even if it's just one thing. Just doing this one thing can seriously transform your day and eventually it becomes habit and you can lift your moods very naturally to face each day with a positive mindset. x That's the thing right there.  So much of what we learn in the process of quitting smoking is applicable to so many more aspects of life.  When I decided to quit and really commit to the process, my primary focus was on simply freeing myself from cigarettes.  I had no idea the process would lead me to become interested in mindfulness and consciousness expansion and neuroscience. Quitting is awesome.  I hope y'all will pardon my tendency to geek out over all this.  It's still new to me.
Make sense. I wake happy. Mrs is pissed.  Stays that way all day. 
Make sense. I wake happy. Mrs is pissed. Stays that way all day. Totally. Just think of the first thing you each see waking up.
We love your excitement about quitting!  Attitude makes such a difference!  I tried to stay upbeat and positive in the beginning.  I had a few low moments (cried on the floor like a baby one day), but overall was so happy to quit!!!  It changed my life - I gained so much! 
Can you share or PM the link to the podcast you were listening, too?
Can you share or PM the link to the podcast you were listening, too? https://www.bulletproofexec.com/robert-cooper-rewiring-brain-creating-new-habits-261/
That's the thing right there.  So much of what we learn in the process of quitting smoking is applicable to so many more aspects of life.  When I decided to quit and really commit to the process, my primary focus was on simply freeing myself from cigarettes.  I had no idea the process would lead me to become interested in mindfulness and consciousness expansion and neuroscience. Quitting is awesome.  I hope y'all will pardon my tendency to geek out over all this.  It's still new to me.You geek away!  You expect to just be a non smoker. The reality is you gain a ton of insight which will support you throughout life. Not in the woe is me way we suspect of quitting - but it's almost like our minds have time to process things differently. Actually having lots more time available means you have time to try new things too :)  So geek away, love it! x
Guess what I thought about immediately after hitting snooze?  :) (actually, I've practiced "setting the intention of the day" for a while, just wasn't aware of the 22 min factor)
You expect to just be a non smoker. The reality is you gain a ton of insight which will support you throughout life. Not in the woe is me way we suspect of quitting - but it's almost like our minds have time to process things differently. Actually having lots more time available means you have time to try new things too  :)  So geek away, love it! x Quitting has truly been an unpredictable ride.  I started out filled with dread, doubt, and insecurity.  Now I'm all wide-eyed and excitable about the benefits of quitting and the lessons learned from the process. A geeking I will go...
Does make sense.  If you don't take aim then your...aimless.
Thank you.
Thank you. You're welcome.  I have downloaded several podcasts that I haven't gotten around to listening to yet.  If any are particularly good and relevant to this forum in any way, I will pass them along.
Makes sense. I would get up, make coffee, check facebook and email, and make my nope pledge. I never thought I'd be able to give up that first smoke of the morning, but the first day I quit I got up and came on here and typed NOPE, and didn't smoke all day. So I guess that 22 min thing has some credence to it. Which reminds me, I should start doing my nope pledges again. I stopped for some reason and just didn't pick it back up again.
Makes sense. I would get up, make coffee, check facebook and email, and make my nope pledge. I never thought I'd be able to give up that first smoke of the morning, but the first day I quit I got up and came on here and typed NOPE, and didn't smoke all day. So I guess that 22 min thing has some credence to it. Which reminds me, I should start doing my nope pledges again. I stopped for some reason and just didn't pick it back up again. Some proactive vibes and a big cup of NOPE...Good way to start the day.
Carnt have enough YIPEEEE,s boo xx
The first time I read Allen Carr's Easyway, I remember reading the bit about waking up in the morning and saying "Yippee!  I am a nonsmoker!" and thinking it was just plain goofy.  I was wrong. Last night I listened to a podcast featuring Dave Asprey interviewing neuroscientist Robert Cooper.  Cooper spoke of the importance of "tripping the switch" in your brain during the first twenty-two minutes of the day.  This time is vital as it marks the most significant shift from the subconscious to the conscious during the day.  What you think and how you think during the first twenty-two minutes in the morning sets the tone for the rest of your day. Thought processes change throughout the day and it is impossible to plan for all the external factors that affect our mindset.  However, "aiming the brain" in the right direction first thing in the morning sets a positive path for the rest of the day. This goes against my nature, but out of respect to Mr. Carr...YIPPEE! I try to put positive thoughts in my mind before night sleep as well as the morning reverie. I do this nearly every day and have done for many years,  Putting myself on the Good Foot.  In reading this today, I never realized when I smoked that lighting up first thing was not only likely killing me, it was re-enforcing the addiction in so many ways and circumventing good intentions for myself.  
On 4/11/2016 at 4:31 AM, Boo said:              The first time I read Allen Carr's Easyway, I remember reading the bit about waking up in the morning and saying "Yippee!  I am a nonsmoker!" and thinking it was just plain goofy.  I was wrong.                                       Last night I listened to a podcast featuring Dave Asprey interviewing neuroscientist Robert Cooper.  Cooper spoke of the importance of "tripping the switch" in your brain during the first twenty-two minutes of the day.  This time is vital as it marks the most significant shift from the subconscious to the conscious during the day.  What you think and how you think during the first twenty-two minutes in the morning sets the tone for the rest of your day.                                       Thought processes change throughout the day and it is impossible to plan for all the external factors that affect our mindset.  However, "aiming the brain" in the right direction first thing in the morning sets a positive path for the rest of the day.                                     This goes against my nature, but out of respect to Mr. Carr...YIPPEE!                                   bump        Here is the podcastEdited Tuesday at 01:49  PM by Sazerac
I do enjoy a trip down memory lane from time-to-time.       Three-and-a-half years removed from deciding to quit and now not smoking feels far more normal than lighting one up would.  However, back in the early days every milestone felt huge and every time I accepted a new way of thinking it felt like an epiphany.     The challenges encountered early on in a quit only set the stage for moments of satisfaction and victory.Edited Tuesday at 09:20  PM by Boo
13 hours ago, Boo said:             However, back in the early days every milestone felt huge and every time I accepted a new way of thinking it felt like an epiphany.                                     The challenges encountered early on in a quit only set the stage for moments of satisfaction and victory.           Exactly this ^^     I exploited these moments as much as I could, going over them again and again, celebrating in my own way and somehow trying to anchor them. That way I was building on something too valuable to lose. And... it worked!
If it wasnt for quitting smoking, I wouldnt have been...    • gradually, over the past year, deep cleaning my house to the point where I feel at home and at ease again • succesfully negotiating my job position and salary    • taking up yoga classes (and even liking them) • saving money for a piano ánd being able to deal with some unexpected financial surprises  • picking up writing again  • losing 22 lbs • re-doing my bedroom   And on a more subtle, but very meaningful level:    • accepting and adjusting to some major changes in my personal life • coming to a new understanding with anxiety    • learning to say 'I need some time. Let me get back at that'.  • learning to be less (self)judgemental • slowly gaining back some concentration, which I use to read. Thats major, after years of depression and fighting for my sanity.   The other day I ran into someone I havent talked to in a long time. She said these unforgettable words: 'its like you are more at peace now, not being haunted by some invisible raging inner critic'. And thats exactly how it is! At the time it all seemed to go sooo veeeeerryyyyy sloooow. I nearly lost patience and kept complaining about the time it took for the patterns to, well, die. I clearly remember my desperation at smokey thoughts: "does this ever stop?!". And now I am almost three months into my second year and Im able to look back at that time, with nothing less than satisfaction and an insane amount of gratitude.    To the hero strugglers, keep going. You will feel better at some point, you will get there. Every day done and dusted is another promis for change. Thoughts about smoking will diminish, unrest will settle and you will find ways to give different meaning to whatever personal issues this addiction forces you to work with.       It is doable and more than worth it, for me as well as for you!  Edited November 15 by MLMR
    Another great post MLMR, thank you for sharing. I'm glad to read about all the positive changes that have happened for you 
    Thanks Jill, but I should actually thank YOU and the others, for the neverending support you provide. The support and the storytelling here makes this such a wonderful and valuable place. 
    And you know what, maybe I didnt even mention the biggest change: I DO stuff! Like getting up early to take walks, going to movies, taking my mom to places, visiting friends more than I used to, facing sh*t instead of hiding ... somehow life isnt passing me by anymore. 
    This was a great honest post @MLMR....  I'm so happy for you ...and it has been a honour to ride the Train with you ....    We hid behind smoking ,much more than we knew ...
    Being honest with yourself.  Setting a goal and accomplishing it.  Learning how to be comfortable with being uncomfortable.  Recognizing the value of patience over instant gratification.  These are all skills necessary to successfully quit smoking and skills that will serve you well in every area of your life.     Quitting smoking is a great choice in and of itself.  Quitting smoking will also prove to be a catalyst for positive change in areas seemingly unrelated to quitting smoking.       Great post MLMR.
    Beautiful post, M.  It has been astounding watching your journey and reading your posts.    We are so lucky you found us and have shared so much of yourself here.      You quit smoking....and the residual effects will continue to reveal themselves.    The honesty involved affects everything and the trust we earn in ourselves shines a light on everything we do.
    Now you understand why we celebrate anyone that breaks free from nicotine addiction.  I've read a lot of remarkable stories on this forum.
Awesome post, MLMR.  Great to hear about all the positive changes in your life.     22 lbs????  Please share the secret.
@d2e8b8, I do 5:2 intermittent fasting.     (https://www.healthline.com/nutrition/the-5-2-diet-guide)       Basically you eat normal for 5 days and mimic fasting for 2 days. On fasting days you consume a restricted amount of calories: max 500 kcal women, 600 kcal for men. Apart from the apparant health benefits (https://www.healthline.com/nutrition/10-health-benefits-of-intermittent-fasting#section1) its supposed to help you lose weight. Well, I clearly do.       Most of the time i find it easy to do. I expected to be binge eating on regular days, but its actually the opposite, Im less hungry and tend to make healthier food choices, without the feeling of depriving myself.        Edited November 16 by MLMR
    Thanks MLMR.  Both my husband and I need to address the extra pounds these days.  This even sounds doable throughout the holidays.  
Its definitely doable @Linda Thomas Just Make sure you get your elektrolytes, in order to prevent a headache.       On a 5:2 day I usually skip breakfast (also on non-fasting days now) and then have a simple salad or some pre-steamed vegetables for lunch. Dinner is often more veggies, these days mostly roasted pumpkin, zucchini, onion etc. Often with salmon or chicken.         On regular days I really dont mind kcals, but to my huge surprise Im not as hungry or craving for mindlessly putting eatable things in my mouth as I was before. I can have my wine and beer like I used to and I still bake with  butter. In general Im a lot less ocupied with food and I really love that! Edited November 16 by MLMR
    Thank you, such a positive and happy post, with objective milestones which you have reached. Being thankful creates a loving journey. 
5 hours ago, MLMR said:             Its definitely doable @Linda Thomas Just Make sure you get your elektrolytes, in order to prevent a headache.           I am definitely trying this.  I think my husband will do well with this also.  He has to have knee replacement in January, after he retires.  I think he would do better with the surgery if he loses some weight.  I will keep you up on our progress.
So I called quit line and got some help to quit smokes.  I wasn't a huge smoker, had cut down to between 6 - 10 a day most days but for a long time.        anyway I got the patches and lozenges they send out and started using them.  Had a pretty good week at first. using the patches and a few lozenges a day was making it through.  One thing that I felt really helped was forgetting the patch one day about 3 days in and being so strung out that it helped me realise that the patches were helping and gave me a huge boost in confidence for the following days.        The problem I have is that on the first day after applying the patch I felt like I had a pain in the bone of my arm, all day like someone gave me a really good dead arm, the next day I move the patch to mu other arm, and the pain followed.  I looked it up online and found this wasn't the most uncommon thing and that my pain seemed mild compared to some of the posts.    The n ext day I put the patch on the back o0f my shoulder, and from this point I had pain in my kidneys .. it started mild but after a few more days was getting quite pronounced and playing on my thoughts all the time.  I decided to stop using the patches and see how I went with just the lozenges, still only using maybe 5 or 6 lozenges a day I managed to push thorough but the kidney pain persisted. I hoped it would subside, the next day it was just as bad if not worse and had not been using a patch for 2 days.         So then I stopped taking the lozenges, and after a couple of days the pain had all but gone, but I was really struggling with my mood and generally ability to focus on literally anything at all,      So now I am at the point where I feel like the patches and lozenges are causing side effects that I just cannot deal with, even though I could tell they were helping me with the smoking.  I know some people that used those Champix tablets and basically went mental, my sister in law for one so much so that we no longer have any contact with them at all and we used to see them most weekends.        I guess my only way forward is cold turkey but that's really tough on everyone and difficult with work.  I feel like I need a 'something to look forward to'  like how when you get home from work and can turn on your 'relax' mode I don't really drink much except occasional 'events' like a big BBQ or whatever but day to day I don't really drink at all.        I've gotten some green tea with lemon which is quite nice and almost fills that hole but I guess maybe I was wondering if anyone else had experienced similar problems wioth the NRT patches and lozenges.      thanks  DC
    Welcome deadlychicken and congratulations on taking back your life. I quit cold turkey so I can't help with your NRT problem but we have many members who did and will be around to offer their input I'm sure. No matter which method you use though, you'll need to be prepared for some discomfort. I assure you it's temporary and well worth getting through to conquer this nasty habit.  If you decide to stay with cold turkey I would recommend stocking up on sweets to suck on and drink lots of water/juice to help flush the nicotine out quicker. You've made a great decision to quit this deadly habit and we're glad to have you aboard 
    G'day @DeadlyChicken....nice to have another Aussie onboard.        So I used the NRT chewies to get through the first months. Luckily no side effects.     I have mates who have had successfully quit using champix without side effects. I wouldn't recommend it though because the side effects can be deadly, a month in hospital with a DVT taught me that.       I would mix up the NRT gums with pks or extra or Chuppa Chups.      Minties and Fantales are ripper options...they take long enough to eat that the crave will pass.
Welcome aboard ...  Congratulations on your decision to take your life back ... Cold turkey here too....chewed regular gum ....came here   24/7.... Read all you can ..knowledge makes you stronger ..  You can do it !!!
6 hours ago, DeadlyChicken said:                I guess my only way forward is cold turkey but that's really tough on everyone and difficult with work.  I feel like I need a 'something to look forward to'  like how when you get home from work and can turn on your 'relax' mode                A successful cold turkey quit is very doable.  I did it.  Several others here did it.  You don't need superhuman strength or willpower of steel to quit cold turkey.  Mostly, you just need to learn to ride out those moments when you are craving a cigarette.  Deep breathing exercises are great.  Physical exercise, a leisurely walk or something more vigorous depending on the mood, is a great option.  Reading.  Listening to music...there are many options to choose from.  Every crave is temporary.  Quitting cold turkey is just a matter of not making a permanent decision based on a temporary feeling.       What really drew me to cold turkey was the simplicity of it all.  There's nothing to administer at regular intervals.  Nothing to buy.  No side effects(what some may call side effects of quitting are actually side effects of smoking).  A cold turkey quit could not be more simple; you don't even have to do anything, you just stop putting things in your mouth and lighting them on fire.      Congratulations on quitting smoking DeadlyChicken.  And thanks for sharing the information about your experience to this point.
Hi, thanks for the support, I will say if I didn't make myself clear in the opening post.  that quitlline is awesome, they give you 3 months of patches and gum or lozenges for free, in three deliveries.  So I have the first delivery and am thinking about just telling them to not bother with the others when it comes time ( they ring you once a week to chat about your week etc ) I think its a really good way to kick things off.  And it does make you answerable to someone if you don't have anyone else at the moment to be answerable to so I found that it was one of those sort of steps you cant take back once youo taken it and helps get your head in the right space.  Recommend to anyone who may have tried alone and struggled before, or who thinks that they want to try the NRT stuff but are scared of the price.  3 months should be enough to quit and not have to spend a cent.       Tonight we went to a friends for a BBQ and beers … normally would have been a time that I might have smoked a lot more than normal, but didn't really crave at all.  I took some lozenges with me but didn't need to pop any ( would have messed up the beers flavour  ) fingers crossed.  Now to see if a hangover without smoking is any better than one with smoking  nn
I agree with everything @Boo posted.    I quit cold turkey and highly recommend quitting this way.  Free and clean.  Just stop smoking or ingesting nicotine.   It is a poison, you know.   Educate yourself about nicotine addiction.      I offer two links from our friend, Joel SpitzerPharmacological Crutches andKeeping NRT in case of emergency          Edited November 16 by Sazerac
    Welcome DeadlyChicken, I also went cold turkey.  I do think it is better to just bite the bullet and get the nicotine out of your system.  This forum is a great place for information and support.  We are here to help guide you to freedom.  Stay close and shout out when you need us.  Keep that wonderful quit going!  
    Well done of doing the Barbie smoke free, from memory the anxiety of faving it was harder than not smoking while I was there.       Hope you don't have the SOLs too bad.
I’m watching children in need (UK BBC1). These kids and their parents kind of bring things down to earth . I always end up in bits , as I am now watching these amazing people . The little lad that has to get his lungs emptied and hates it and the “public funded” people that help them out ! WTF . I chose to inhale  poison into my lungs ending in more than 40 a day ? Poor us as quitters - that is never an excuse .
Here is a great thread from WhyQuit in which nicotine addicts tell of the crazy things they did to indulge their addiction.Desperate Addict's Parade        We have some of our own stories on this threadSpoiled Brats/Nicotine Addicts        We all have our similar yet unique stories, lets hear them !        My most memorable was after 9 months of abstinence from smoking,    home birth, healthy baby...I was alive...to my midwives I said, ' Great...now I need a smoke' and one of them gave me a camel straight.     I would collect my old snipes and roll them into a smoke, move refrigerators to find dog ends.  Nothing was keeping me from nicotine and I was completely shameless about it.  I didn't care.       Now, I don't understand how I kept the denial of my addiction intact for all those years...
    I shudder now to think of the times I dug through the trash and/or dirty ashtrays to find smokeable butts. I would also steal cigarettes from my in-laws, who live upstairs, and sneak out behind the garage to smoke them. (This was, of course, when I was trying to hide my habit.)      I once tossed a mostly-full pack of smokes out of my car window when I decided to quit. (I know, littering is bad.) But in a moment of weakness, I drove back to that site and pulled over, searching the embankments on both sides of the road for my pack! (Why I didn't just go straight out and buy a new pack I'll never know.)        I did stupid things to feed my habit.
    When I gave birth to Nicky ....the ash tray was on my cabinet next to my bed ....   Puffing my head off...next to a New Baby .....  Now !!!!.....this makes me angry ....junkie ....
    I remember chain smoking at airports before I got on the plane for a four hour flight while hubby stood outside waiting for his addict to get her fix 
Some of the crazy addict stuff I did....        1. Stole cigs from my parents when I ran out of my own - mind you, they both smoked Pall Mall Red (no filter). Oooh...can't say how many times I ripped the skin off my lower lip after taking a drag!!! Those cigs were harsh!     2. I only used to smoke a cig half-way and then stub it out....so  when I didn't have any...the hunt was on for those 1/2 smoked stubbies...ugh!        3. Going out in the middle of the night in a blinding snowstorm to nearest 7-11 to buy a pack!      4.  Smoking 3 or 4 in a row when at airports between flights...when the security rules changed and you had to go outside the airport to smoke...almost missing connecting flights because of this damned addiction! Planning flights to airports that still had smoking lounges ...even thought it took me way out of my way!!      5. I am a scuba diver and after every dive spent the dive interval time sitting on the boat or a beach and lighting up!!! Crazy, I know!        6. I flew from NYC to Copenhagen once and it felt like torture .....would I have to give up dreams of going to Australia, New Zealand, Alaska and Hawaii?? At the time, I thought so...     So happy that I am smoke-free now....
Saw this somewhere else and thought it useful to post here.  From Whyquit.com.  I like #11 and 12 Summary of Basic Recovery Tips From Freedom from Nicotine by John R. Polito of Whyquit.com1. Law of Addiction - Administration of a drug to an addict will cause re-establishment of chemical dependence upon the addictive substance. Fully accept chemical dependency. Nicotine addiction is as real and permanent as alcoholism. There is no such thing as just one.2. Measure Victory One Day at a Time - Forget about quitting "forever." It's the biggest psychological bite imaginable. Instead, adopt a do-able “one day at a time" recovery philosophy.3. Record Your Motivations - Once in the heat of battle it's normal to forget the reasons that motivated us to begin this journey home. Write yourself a reminder letter and carry it with you.4. Do Not Skip Meals - Each puff of nicotine was our spoon pumping stored fats and sugars into our bloodstream. Why add hunger craves to nicotine craves . Eat little, healthy and often.5. Three Days of Natural Juices - If your health permits and non-diabetic, consider drinking plenty of acidic fruit juice the first three days. Cranberry is excellent.6. Quitting for Others – We cannot quit for others. It must be our gift to us. Quitting for others creates a natural sense of self deprivation that will eat away at you and is a recipe for relapse.7. Attitude - A positive attitude is important. Our subconscious is listening. Think positively.8. Get Rid of All Nicotine - Keeping a stash handy is asking for relapse. Build in time delay.9. Caffeine/Nicotine Interaction - Nicotine doubles the rate by which the body depletes caffeine. Consider a caffeine reduction of up to one-half if troubled by anxieties or poor sleeping.10. Aggressively Extinguish Nicotine Use Cues - Most use cues are extinguished by a single encounter during which the subconscious fails to receive the expected result – nicotine. Subconsciously triggered craves peak in intensity within three minutes. Cessation time distortion may make the minutes feel like hours. Keep a clock handy to maintain honest perspective. Take back your life one cue at a time!11. Crave Coping Techniques - One coping method is to practice slow deep breathing while clearing your mind of all needless chatter by focusing on your favorite person, place or thing. Another exercise is to say your ABCs while associating each letter with your favorite food, person or place. For example, the letter "A" is for grandma's hot apple pie. "B" is for warm buttered biscuits. I think you'll find that you'll never make it to the challenging letter Q before the episode peaks in intensity and victory is yours. Try embracing a crave episode by mentally reaching out inside your mind. A crave cannot cut us, burn us or make us bleed. Be brave just once. In your mind, wrap your arms around the crave's anxiety energy and then sense as it slowly fizzles and dies while in your embrace. Yes, another use cue bites the dust and victory is yours!12. Alcohol Use - Alcohol is associated with 50% of all relapses. Be extremely careful with early alcohol use during. Get your recovery legs under you first. Once ready, consider drinking at home first without nicotine around, going out with friends but refraining from drinking during the first outing, or spacing drinks further apart or drinking water or juice between drinks. Have an escape plan and a backup, and be fully prepared to use both.13. Avoid Crutches - A crutch is any form of reliance that you lean upon so heavily in supporting your recovery that if quickly removed would likely result in relapse.14. No Legitimate Excuse for Relapse - Recognize that using nicotine cannot solve any crisis. Fully accept the fact that there is absolutely no legitimate excuse for relapse, including an auto accident, financial crisis, the end of a relationship, job loss, a terrorist attack, a hurricane, the birth of a baby, falling stocks, or the eventual inevitable death of those we love most.15. Reward Yourself - Consider using some of the money you save to be nice to you. You've earned it! Remember, with drug addiction there's no such thing as just one.16. Just One Rule - There is only one rule which if followed provides a 100% guarantee of success: no nicotine today!http://whyquit.com/ffn/
Great great great, beacon, thank you for posting this. My favorite is #16 and I would put it First. N O P E
Thanks for posting this! It's awesome!
"He/She quit smoking for the rest of their life." When you realize that "quit smoking" is an activity and not an event the sentence takes on a subtly different meaning.   
Now I understood smoking didn't help solve anything ..couldn't change anything...Crap happens to people who have never smoked too...It has to be number 14 for me...once my junkie brain truly understood this.and it sunk in...I felt like a huge fight in the battle was over...
    bump and a hello to Mel and Beacon too.
On 7/6/2016 at 3:37 PM, beacon said:                                    Saw this somewhere else and thought it useful to post here.  From Whyquit.com.  I like #11 and 12                           Summary of Basic Recovery Tips                  From Freedom from Nicotine by John R. Polito of Whyquit.com1. Law of Addiction - Administration of a drug to an addict will cause re-establishment of chemical dependence upon the addictive substance. Fully accept chemical dependency. Nicotine addiction is as real and permanent as alcoholism. There is no such thing as just one.2. Measure Victory One Day at a Time - Forget about quitting "forever." It's the biggest psychological bite imaginable. Instead, adopt a do-able “one day at a time" recovery philosophy.3. Record Your Motivations - Once in the heat of battle it's normal to forget the reasons that motivated us to begin this journey home. Write yourself a reminder letter and carry it with you.4. Do Not Skip Meals - Each puff of nicotine was our spoon pumping stored fats and sugars into our bloodstream. Why add hunger craves to nicotine craves . Eat little, healthy and often.5. Three Days of Natural Juices - If your health permits and non-diabetic, consider drinking plenty of acidic fruit juice the first three days. Cranberry is excellent.6. Quitting for Others – We cannot quit for others. It must be our gift to us. Quitting for others creates a natural sense of self deprivation that will eat away at you and is a recipe for relapse.7. Attitude - A positive attitude is important. Our subconscious is listening. Think positively.8. Get Rid of All Nicotine - Keeping a stash handy is asking for relapse. Build in time delay.9. Caffeine/Nicotine Interaction - Nicotine doubles the rate by which the body depletes caffeine. Consider a caffeine reduction of up to one-half if troubled by anxieties or poor sleeping.10. Aggressively Extinguish Nicotine Use Cues - Most use cues are extinguished by a single encounter during which the subconscious fails to receive the expected result – nicotine. Subconsciously triggered craves peak in intensity within three minutes. Cessation time distortion may make the minutes feel like hours. Keep a clock handy to maintain honest perspective. Take back your life one cue at a time!11. Crave Coping Techniques - One coping method is to practice slow deep breathing while clearing your mind of all needless chatter by focusing on your favorite person, place or thing. Another exercise is to say your ABCs while associating each letter with your favorite food, person or place. For example, the letter "A" is for grandma's hot apple pie. "B" is for warm buttered biscuits. I think you'll find that you'll never make it to the challenging letter Q before the episode peaks in intensity and victory is yours. Try embracing a crave episode by mentally reaching out inside your mind. A crave cannot cut us, burn us or make us bleed. Be brave just once. In your mind, wrap your arms around the crave's anxiety energy and then sense as it slowly fizzles and dies while in your embrace. Yes, another use cue bites the dust and victory is yours!12. Alcohol Use - Alcohol is associated with 50% of all relapses. Be extremely careful with early alcohol use during. Get your recovery legs under you first. Once ready, consider drinking at home first without nicotine around, going out with friends but refraining from drinking during the first outing, or spacing drinks further apart or drinking water or juice between drinks. Have an escape plan and a backup, and be fully prepared to use both.13. Avoid Crutches - A crutch is any form of reliance that you lean upon so heavily in supporting your recovery that if quickly removed would likely result in relapse.14. No Legitimate Excuse for Relapse - Recognize that using nicotine cannot solve any crisis. Fully accept the fact that there is absolutely no legitimate excuse for relapse, including an auto accident, financial crisis, the end of a relationship, job loss, a terrorist attack, a hurricane, the birth of a baby, falling stocks, or the eventual inevitable death of those we love most.15. Reward Yourself - Consider using some of the money you save to be nice to you. You've earned it! Remember, with drug addiction there's no such thing as just one.16. Just One Rule - There is only one rule which if followed provides a 100% guarantee of success: no nicotine today!http://whyquit.com/ffn/         bump
'It is well-known that smoking is much more common amongst people with mental illness – especially depression and schizophrenia. However, most studies that have looked at this association have not been able to disentangle whether this is a cause-and-effect relationship, and if so in which direction. Does mental illness increase the likelihood of smoking, or is smoking itself a risk factor for mental illness?'     http://www.bristol.ac.uk/news/2019/november/smoking.html
    This is very interesting material, I have some thoughts on this subject. But it sucks to type on a mobile. So I will get back on this later 
VV. interesting, thank you M'Life.   "Looking at our current results alongside previous literature, we conclude this strengthens evidence for an effect of smoking on increased risk of depression and schizophrenia.    Future work should attempt to elucidate the underlying mechanisms with a hope to intervene, inform public health messages or further advance our knowledge on the aetiology of mental illness.      In particular, it will be important to consider other constituents of tobacco smoke to determine whether it is exposure to nicotine or some other constituent that increases risk of schizophrenia and depression. This is particularly important in the context of the recent growth in electronic cigarette use."                 Edited November 13 by Sazerac
    For me, it has always been a vicious cycle. I have bipolar depression, and I started smoking after the onset of my first major depressive episode. The nicotine actually seemed to relieve certain aspects of my depression, but it created horrific anxiety with the craving/withdrawal cycle. It also caused me a great deal of shame, which fueled my depression. So I would quit. The anxiety would lessen, but the depression would increase as my dopamine levels plummeted. I'd start smoking again, and the cycle would continue.       I've been doing a lot of personal research into nicotine addiction and mental health, and the more I understand it, the stronger I get in my quit.      Thank you for sharing.
    Here are more links  Smoking and Psychosis   Quitting Smoking Blues
        Quote               the more I understand it, the stronger I get in my quit.                Knowledge is power.  You're doing great abbynormal.
I have confidence in my quit and estimate my chance of relapse is low   still...addiction is a wily condition and I am human.       Here are my four maneuvers to avert relapse,    (  Think again,  Get right with yourself,  Contact an ally,  Post an SOS  ) and a slew of red flags...       When you know better yet, are purposefully leading yourself astray       ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~     If you have tiny tempting smokey thoughts that you are nuturing by not dismissing immediately and aggressively              ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~  I won't get addicted this time          ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~  Whenever you start to 'romance smoking'             ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~  If you seriously entertain the idea that smoking looks attractive or makes you feel carefree and part of the fun             ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~     If you are having silly thoughts like, my smoking friends are having a great time and I'm missing out            ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~     If you really wonder, what it would it taste like now,                   ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~     Will I still get that, 'ahhhh' feeling ?            ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~  When you start to think that you are 'different' and that you can handle just one.              ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~  Do you think you can quit again without much effort?             ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~     If you want to give yourself permission for just one, once in a while, just this once           ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~  If you feel too secure in your quit and start to act cocky              ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~  If you propose to test your quit            ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~  Are you starting to believe, you've been quit long enough to handle a puff or two?               ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~     If you know too much to get addicted again          ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~  Whever you are doubting your commitment to your quit           ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~   If you ignore the reality that smoking is a terrifying choice with significant consequences                  ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~     If you are dismissive of the fact that you can Never Take Another Puff,  Not One Puff Ever.           ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~    I forgot the major red flag,  I am not an addict !   ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~     I'm an adult and I'll do wtf I want !    ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~            Have you more red flags to add ?   Different manuevers ?                     Edited May 2, 2018 by Sazeracadditions
    That was awesome Saz! I plan to save it for future and periodic reading. Thanks!
    Awesome post -- Many red flags I have already dealt with -- will keep bookmarked.  Thanks so much for posting
    All true. So true. It's hard to remember these in the thick of it... I recognize several of these on my thoughts.
14 hours ago, Sazerac said: If you feel too secure in your quit and start to act cocky                                   ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~                         If you propose to test your quit                                     ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~                              Did you write these two for me... cos they are my big bug bears at this moment.     If your life is going off the rails and you start to think having a smoke will calm things down.        ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~  When you feel crappy and a bit down thinking a smoke will make you feel better.         ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~  When you need to give yourself a little pat on the back for a job well done, and a smoke seem the right reward.         ~ think again, get right with yourself, contact an ally, post an SOS ~     As always, a brilliant and insightful post that gives so much. Definitely a keeper. Edited May 2, 2018 by notsmokinjo
    Great post, so many I can relate to.    Thank you 
    A great read , thanks .     Now where's the food 
is that you may not ever quit again.  This is a very realistic outcome if you choose to smoke again.  We've all heard that smoking doesn't make anything better when in fact it makes it worse.  It's doesn't calm you down, solve your problems and instead costs a small fortune and kills you. If you've started again, quit and right the ship.  If you're thinking about smoking again, quickly get that thought under control and make a decision based on facts, not emotion.  Emotion is what has always caused me to relapse.  I was pissed off, stressed or in some funk.  Here are a couple of videos to give you some things to think about work through this.  Just hang on, before you know it these rough times will pass.  :)  Stay positive and stick around here.  With the nuts we have here (I'm the lead nut, thank you very much) you can't help but stay at least a little bit positive. The Power Of Nicotine Addiction Video explains the full power of the grip that nicotine can take on an individual and the consequences that can be faced if a person does not quit smoking. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TpYRrZG5l8A Who Wants To Go Back To Smoking?This video discusses how former smokers at times think they want to go back to smoking, but if they really remind themselves of the package deal that goes along with being a smoker, it will be easy for them to stick to their quit. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DG9qGjf2hd8&list=PL76365B6CE2DA076B Are You Stronger Than Your Cigarettes?This video discusses the importance of understanding that you won't be able to quit smoking and stay free by becoming stronger than cigarettes but rather by becoming smarter than nicotine. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uxLxDuTOCT0 "It's Inevitable, Some Smokers Are Going To Relapse" If you are a member of any quit smoking support group, whether it be online or a live program, it is likely that some members of your group are going to fail. You should not interpret this fact to mean that it is likely or inevitable that you are going to fail. Video spells out the major difference between people who relapse and those who don't. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ego_dpPmfOk
Acknowledge The Negative But Dwell On The PositiveVideo discusses benefits of working on developing a positive attitude about quitting smoking. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zbu6onu0N_s
Great video's MQ.  
    Keep The Quit....no matter how hard it is...as stated it could be years or even never before you have the will to have another attempt....  That way...you only go through it once ..
Never quit quitting.    Nobody is a lost cause or a special snowflake.  No one is more addicted than anyone else.   We are all nicotine addicts and can choose to put our addiction to sleep.       Commit to NOPE.  Not One Puff Ever. Commit to NOPE as if your life depends on it    for it very well might !Edited November 12, 2018 by Sazerac
Start quitting today and don't quit on your quit.   Tomorrow isn't promised for anyone; why let this chance pass you by??   Everyone deserves the freedom and happiness that comes with a solid quit. Please give yourself this gift.Edited November 13, 2018 by c9jane29
bumpity bump bump for @forestgreen           Edited November 12 by Sazerac
Well my second time quit and I would have been three years at Christmas there are no excuses been made redundant I've had two spinal operations I've got heart issues and I got blood issues no excuse I had a drink I have a smoke and now I'm smoking again.  like I said no excuses I am gutted because I'm coughing and shortness of breath again.  I have set my new quit date of Sunday 24th of November and I'm back on here as of the 24th daily.   I noticed my friend jillar is still here as an administrator now, I no doubt will get all of the support I had before to quit again Kazza
Welcome back Kazza! Great to read that you are gonna get back on the train! The best gift you can give yourself if you ask me! Is there any (realistic) reason to delay this present? I mean.. why wait? The train is ready for you! The hardest weeks could be over on the 24th right? Let the Junky not be the one who decides!   That said, if you do decide to wait, that's cool too! Your quit so take your time to educate yourself - even if you think you know everything there is to know.. you need all hands on deck and all knowledge as leverage to overpower the addiction
@Kazza, Welcome back !  @Vivianne is right....why wait ?  Waiting enables anxiety and fear and a change of heart.    Decide to quit and quit.  Then read all you can, even if you think you already know about nicotine addiction.The information needs to be embedded in your brain, leaving NO room for relapse.   You can build yourself a strong and sturdy quit, put the work into your quit.  Invest in Yourself.  You deserve to be Free !
    Welcome Kazaa.      There are so many reasons to quit smoking and your health is a huge one.  Sazarac and Vivianne are right.  Why wait?  You need to quit as soon as possible.  There is plenty of support here to help you.
    Welcome back kazza, I'm sorry you lost your quit. I have to agree with the others that there's no time like the present to give yourself that present of quitting smoking. I know for myself that anytime I set a quit date the anxiety of actually going through with quitting was too much and I would just put it off.   My health was suffering too so I know how important it is for you to quit. So please stick close. You will get all the support you need here.   It's really good to 'see' you again 
    Welcome aboard .... Sorry you lit up again ....there is no such thing as ....just one ....  I agree with all those before me .. why wait ...junkie thinking ...why put more poison into your body ,just to get rid of it again .... You are amongst friends here...who will support you all the way in your journey ...
Welcome back - I totally understand picking a quit date - it gives you time to get ready - but it also just gives you more time to smoke - I originally was going to quit on November 15 - but I just decided one morning when I had only a smoke left to quit instead of buying any more and here I am - Has it been easy? nope - Have I wished I kept my original quit day? - Of course then I would still be smoking. All junkie thinking...     But whatever you decide we are here for you!!
Welcome back kazza!  I’m sorry to hear of your health troubles.  Get ready to get to work!! We are here to support you again every step of the way!         —L4L
    Welcome back to the QTrain, Kazza! Support is everything when you quit and you know you will find it here...take a seat and buckle in, it's going to get bumpy...but just for awhile! 
24th November is too much time and too much cigarettes .        Fight the demon soon and regain your health soon .      Stop worrying about unwanted health issues by smoking a lot of cigarettes       Fight the devil , Yes you can
The other day I went to the supermarked in the parking lot, opened my car door, and there was a complete whole cigarette in front of me. What should I do! I looked at it for quite a while, a bit too long I am thinking. I was kind of overjoyed to see it. What! I said to myself is this feeling for, it was like when I was down to my last cig and then found one which filled me with such happiness that I had discovered this find. So I guess this feeling of Joy still is hanging around, lurking in corners ready to surprise me. I realized this was serious, should I pick it up, or what!  No I didn't do any of those things, just kicked it away with my foot.     Leaves me thinking still: Old habits die hard, but its the feelings that take a while to go away too. After all over 7 months now and it seems those residue of feelings are still around yet. I am hoping its still the Joy of discovery that is still in me, and not the yearning.
    Sneaky devils they are and kudos to you for doing the right thing.  It just shows that we can never drop our guard. I think it was a positive experience for you in a testing sort of way.
@forestgreen    I just bumped this thread but, in case you miss it, have a lookHey-you-smoked-for-42-years-why-on-earth-would-you-think-you-can-get-past-the-addiction-in a couple of months, cut yourself some slack       Smoking changed our DNA and the addiction is with us forever.   All we can do is put it to sleep and stand guard over our quit. It is to be expected that associations and odd triggers will pop up, even over the course of our life.  These are never commands just reminders to hold fast to our commitment to NOPE (Not One Puff Ever)                   Edited November 6 by Sazerac
Smoking Leaves Lasting Marks On DNA
    and this from our friend, Joel Spitzer   
    Well done. Kick it to the kerb where it belongs.
Yea, I might have done that same thing as you forestgreen, it's normal. We smoked for a lot of years so even though seven months is awesome it's really just a drop in the bucket when compared to all those smoking years. Same with my almost 3 1/2 years. But each day we say NOPE makes us that much stronger
3 hours ago, forestgreen said:              The other day I went to the supermarked in the parking lot, opened my car door, and there was a complete whole cigarette in front of me. What should I do! I looked at it for quite a while, a bit too long I am thinking. I was kind of overjoyed to see it. What! I said to myself is this feeling for, it was like when I was down to my last cig and then found one which filled me with such happiness that I had discovered this find. So I guess this feeling of Joy still is hanging around, lurking in corners ready to surprise me. I realized this was serious, should I pick it up, or what!  No I didn't do any of those things, just kicked it away with my foot.                 Just kicked it away and went on with the rest of your day.      The cigarette has as much or as little power as we give it.  A cigarette can be either the object that enslaves and eventually kills us or it can be just another bit of inanimate debris that is easily discarded.     A change in perception can go a long way in changing your life.
    When you educate yourself about the slavery to cigerettes.....and understand what a evil trap this addiction is     Its easier to discard the odd cigerette we find or lighter. You decided your quit was special and worth hanging on too.........well done ....
    Cigarette is a demon, It will enslave you for sure .    That nicotine smoke will cover your brain with only cigarette related thoughts .        Once you stop using it , your head will have more clarity       After throwing it away , you will be a better decision maker i think .      The cravings and conflicts keeps coming and going . But those sort of conflicts inside the head is always there for a normal human being .      So , throw the cigarettes away and deal with the conflicts .        There is always stress and strain in our everyday lives .       I don't think cigarettes can cure those stress and strain in anyway  
    Thank you so much everyone, for helping me to understand my own residue of emotions,  more importantly that I am not alone in wondering what the! .....in my mind. This experience only left me wondering, but my action made me feel a whole lot better. I guess I have to watch this side of me a bit more especially now that, the hurrying in shopping and driving has started in the Pre-Christmas rush. 
    It's not true joy you were feeling. It was the inner addict's voice, shouting for you to feed it. The inner addict felt joy. Not you. It really helps me to separate that part of myself. My inner addict wants a cigarette, but I don't. And I'm stronger. I'm gonna starve that ol' inner addict to death! You will, too. It takes a lot of time for that inner addict to really go dormant. (As we all know, it never really dies. It only takes one cigarette to bring it to life again.) Each time you face a trigger and don't smoke, your inner addict withers away a bit more.  Glad you kicked that cigarette to the curb!
    Hey thanks abbynormal, I am mostly always a joyful person, so it left me wondering should I give this feeling of joy over to the gutter with the cig, or do I hang onto the joyful bit, I am trying so hard to be happy with myself and others while I kick (pun) the habit.  I guess I will be standing guard and joyfully refrain. 
53 minutes ago, forestgreen said:               Hey thanks abbynormal, I am mostly always a joyful person, so it left me wondering should I give this feeling of joy over to the gutter with the cig, or do I hang onto the joyful bit, I am trying so hard to be happy with myself and others while I kick (pun) the habit.  I guess I will be standing guard and joyfully refrain.                    You will find true Joy in your real self, the self that is not feeding a nicotine addiction.    Nicotine gangstered our brain receptors responsible for rewards (i.e. dopamine).    One by one we claim these receptors back.   It takes a while for the endorphins and dopamine to kick in.        This is why rewards are SO important, and why we recommend rewards for every crave/trigger and for every celebration.       I propose finding something beautiful to listen to or look at or remember when you are in a crave.  It will assist your brain to trigger endorphins/dopamine for Good things, for Clean things, for appropriate things  and wean itself away from the poison that is nicotine.
I agree about rewards, the only problem is  I used this method, by buying a cake at the supermarket, but now I am trying to loose weight, I will have to give myself something in reality, or think of something, straight away, which is hard to do when you are in the throse of remembering your previous reaction...Joyful could equal "glad that's over with" ,  buying a small item, around $3 which equals one cigarette and the price of a cake.  ??? ...I have already lost 2 kgms over 3 weeks. A bit slow but I think it will stick more for all of the time, and I ave been lucky enough to have done this before so my healthy eating is very good, except for cakes
2 hours ago, forestgreen said:              think of something, straight away, which is hard to do when you are in the throes of remembering your previous reaction.                I had to fake it at first, thinking that it was ridiculous but, man, it started to work.    The point is changing your thought to something good or just looking at something beautiful...that light on that leaf or the colour of that garment...something at hand.    Pick up a favourite book, give someone a hug, put a talisman in your pocket.        Even faking a smile encourages endorphins...and soon the smile becomes very, very real.     I also put the ducats for the cost of a pack of smokes every day in a big mason jar.  The dosh added up quickly and I could take it out and count it like King Midas.   This was a huge motivator for me.
    The thing is rewards were cake or ice cream now I am loosing weight. Need to buy something else that is real or think of something else to make me smile.
    How about a nice smelling candle ,now that your nose is coming back to life .......lovely ...    
    That sounds lovely. Will do that one thanks Doreensfree
ORIGINALLY BY OBOB-GOLD FREEDOM MEMBER-WHYQUIT.COM So, I start reminiscing a bit about the early days of my quit. I remember members popping in to post their celebration threads. Green, Bronze, Silver, Gold and beyond. It felt downright intimidating. Here was I, with my seemingly tiny little insignificant sum of 3 days, 4 days, 5 days and so on... clinging to my quit like a man clinging to a life line thrown over the side of a ship to a man overboard in a turbulent sea. More comfortable ex-smokers would roll past on their skiff, yachts and cruiseliners, each with the same advice. Keep climbing that rope. Don't let go of it. It'll get easier. We promise. To me, those people seemed like heroes. From my perspective, they were superhuman, with this gift of comfort I couldn't hardly imagine at that point. I dreamed of being like them some day, but it seemed hard to fathom that this splintery rope would really get me there. It was hard, and I was tired. But, I really wanted to be like those amazing people, and everyone of them told me the same thing… keep climbing, don't let go. Simple. A real slog, but simple. So, I took their advice, kept climbing and didn't let go. Lo and behold, it was true. It did, in fact, get easier, and easier. There was the odd bit of rope burn, and occasionally a seagull would take aim at my dome with an unwelcome gift (nobody takes a metaphor to the extremes I will), but all-in-all, it got more and more doable, less and less of a chore, and at some point, almost without noticing it, I found myself reclining on the Lido Deck with the others. That was years ago now. I've been kicking back up here for a good long time now, and I can tell you it's very nice. So, what's my point? My point is to you, the newcomer. Down there on the rope. Yeah, you. You're looking up at me (and the others who have so much time under their belts), and thinking, "man, that guy's almost surreal. Maybe he's got something I don't. How in the world did he get up there? Surely, he didn't take this blasted rope?! He must have some secret that I don't. He's gotta have supernatural powers to have such comfort." My point to you is this: Every one of us up here got here the same way. We took the rope. We climbed it. We didn't let go. And, just like we were told, it got easier. You will also get here that way. Three years ago, I was where you are. Everyone here has been there at one time. We understand what you're going through. Nobody here is a superhero. We're just addicts like you who found the rope earlier. And, we can each promise you… the rope is climbable, it does get easier, and there IS a place for you up here. There's one other way in which we're similar. Neither of us have wings. We let go the rope, or step off the side, we all plummet to the abyss the same way. One puff and it's all history. I learned that on my way up too. People who'd seemed almost unreal they were so comfortable, for no reason that I could understand, suddenly got up from their comfortable seats, walked to the side of the deck, and threw themselves off. Breaking the metaphor, so that it's perfectly clear, they took a puff and lost their freedom. Some of these were members who had been very active in supporting others, and had experienced months and even years of sustained comfort. One day, for their own reasons, they decided to chance it, and lo and behold their comfort was gone. They returned to their old levels of smoking, often more. I know this is true from email, and from the time when Freedom's policies were different and relapsed members were allowed to rejoin. All it took was one puff, and it was over. So, while it may be tempting to look at some of the longer term quitters with awe, consider that we are, and always will be subject to the same rules you are. One puff = all puffs. If I were to slip down to the pub right now, walk up to a friend, and take a drag off of his cigarette, I know full well that I would be out on my deck tomorrow night with a pack and an ash tray putting memories of Freedom and this post and everything I've given myself over the past 3 years in a deep hidden locker that my junky side would work overtime to prevent me from opening. Why is it important to point out that, with respect to nicotine addiction, you and I are the same, just separated by a bit of time? I guess because it's tempting for a new quitter to allow himself or herself to believe that all of these people dispensing education and encouragement here, couldn't possibly understand what they're going through. It may be tempting to listen to your own junky mind telling you, "You're different. These people aren't like you. They don't understand what you're experiencing. You know that you'll never be able to be like them. It's impossible for you." My long-winded, metaphorically-extreme point is to tell you that that's bunk. While you are different from me in many ways, our addiction to nicotine is the same. You will find comfort (emphasis on WILL) just as I and every other long-term member of Freedom did (by never taking another puff), and you WILL maintain that comfort the same way we all must (by never taking another puff).The factor that really shows the addiction is not how hard or how easy it is to quit. What really shows the addiction is how universally easy it is to go back. One puff and the quit can go out the window.
Hi Nancy, I missed this last night- had already turned off the computer.  I love this it is so true.  Thanks for posting. :)
This is one of my favorite posts Nancy! Thank you! 
I often wondered where "climbing the rope" came from I love it, definitely a great way to describe our journey x
Thanks Nancy. Great post.
Someone mentioned "climbing the rope" in another thread...
ORIGINALLY BY OBOB-GOLD FREEDOM MEMBER-WHYQUIT.COM  So, I start reminiscing a bit about the early days of my quit. I remember members popping in to post their celebration threads. Green, Bronze, Silver, Gold and beyond. It felt downright intimidating. Here was I, with my seemingly tiny little insignificant sum of 3 days, 4 days, 5 days and so on... clinging to my quit like a man clinging to a life line thrown over the side of a ship to a man overboard in a turbulent sea. More comfortable ex-smokers would roll past on their skiff, yachts and cruiseliners, each with the same advice. Keep climbing that rope. Don't let go of it. It'll get easier. We promise.  To me, those people seemed like heroes. From my perspective, they were superhuman, with this gift of comfort I couldn't hardly imagine at that point. I dreamed of being like them some day, but it seemed hard to fathom that this splintery rope would really get me there. It was hard, and I was tired. But, I really wanted to be like those amazing people, and everyone of them told me the same thing… keep climbing, don't let go. Simple. A real slog, but simple.  So, I took their advice, kept climbing and didn't let go. Lo and behold, it was true. It did, in fact, get easier, and easier. There was the odd bit of rope burn, and occasionally a seagull would take aim at my dome with an unwelcome gift (nobody takes a metaphor to the extremes I will), but all-in-all, it got more and more doable, less and less of a chore, and at some point, almost without noticing it, I found myself reclining on the Lido Deck with the others. That was years ago now. I've been kicking back up here for a good long time now, and I can tell you it's very nice.  So, what's my point? My point is to you, the newcomer. Down there on the rope. Yeah, you. You're looking up at me (and the others who have so much time under their belts), and thinking, "man, that guy's almost surreal. Maybe he's got something I don't. How in the world did he get up there? Surely, he didn't take this blasted rope?! He must have some secret that I don't. He's gotta have supernatural powers to have such comfort."  My point to you is this: Every one of us up here got here the same way. We took the rope. We climbed it. We didn't let go. And, just like we were told, it got easier. You will also get here that way.  Three years ago, I was where you are. Everyone here has been there at one time. We understand what you're going through. Nobody here is a superhero. We're just addicts like you who found the rope earlier. And, we can each promise you… the rope is climbable, it does get easier, and there IS a place for you up here.  There's one other way in which we're similar. Neither of us have wings. We let go the rope, or step off the side, we all plummet to the abyss the same way. One puff and it's all history. I learned that on my way up too. People who'd seemed almost unreal they were so comfortable, for no reason that I could understand, suddenly got up from their comfortable seats, walked to the side of the deck, and threw themselves off.  Breaking the metaphor, so that it's perfectly clear, they took a puff and lost their freedom. Some of these were members who had been very active in supporting others, and had experienced months and even years of sustained comfort. One day, for their own reasons, they decided to chance it, and lo and behold their comfort was gone. They returned to their old levels of smoking, often more. I know this is true from email, and from the time when Freedom's policies were different and relapsed members were allowed to rejoin. All it took was one puff, and it was over.  So, while it may be tempting to look at some of the longer term quitters with awe, consider that we are, and always will be subject to the same rules you are. One puff = all puffs. If I were to slip down to the pub right now, walk up to a friend, and take a drag off of his cigarette, I know full well that I would be out on my deck tomorrow night with a pack and an ash tray putting memories of Freedom and this post and everything I've given myself over the past 3 years in a deep hidden locker that my junky side would work overtime to prevent me from opening.  Why is it important to point out that, with respect to nicotine addiction, you and I are the same, just separated by a bit of time? I guess because it's tempting for a new quitter to allow himself or herself to believe that all of these people dispensing education and encouragement here, couldn't possibly understand what they're going through. It may be tempting to listen to your own junky mind telling you, "You're different. These people aren't like you. They don't understand what you're experiencing. You know that you'll never be able to be like them. It's impossible for you."  My long-winded, metaphorically-extreme point is to tell you that that's bunk. While you are different from me in many ways, our addiction to nicotine is the same. You will find comfort (emphasis on WILL) just as I and every other long-term member of Freedom did (by never taking another puff), and you WILL maintain that comfort the same way we all must (by never taking another puff).The factor that really shows the addiction is not how hard or how easy it is to quit. What really shows the addiction is how universally easy it is to go back. One puff and the quit can go out the window. robg Thank you for bumping it again Nancy this is a great one.
This is one of my favourites......
As a climber ... I gotta say y'all got the wrong metaphor. You don't climb the rope. You climb the wall. The rope catches you if you fall off the wall.  :D  :P   Climb the wall!  Easy Peasy
Bump for the newbies
This is a fabulous post and if you're lurking, and reading this, don't let your FEAR of heights put you off ;) There are plenty of us here who could no more manage a two step ladder in the past but have knuckled down and reached the top.  New year, new you....please make that first step you'll be overjoyed when you reach the top :)
What a great post. The timing is perfect as my relapse and subsequent immediate re-quit is still just a few days old and is a bit shaky. Thanks for bumping it. 
Time to bump! Keep climbing....don't look down...just keep going..one day at a time :)
.
 :huh:
Bump for newbies
Thank you! Excellent post. I am conufused by this line: "I know this is true from email, and from the time when Freedom's policies were different and relapsed members were allowed to rejoin" Are we not welcome back if we relapse?
Thank you! Excellent post. I am conufused by this line: "I know this is true from email, and from the time when Freedom's policies were different and relapsed members were allowed to rejoin" Are we not welcome back if we relapse? I believe this is in reference to a different online Quit Smoking group.  Many of our seasoned QT'rs started off on another site; some are still members there and some are not.
Newbies and lurkers
 :P
I was there 1 day, then hijacked unto here, never left :P
Bringing this forward ..
The hardest thing about time is doing it. Paradoxically, it gets easier to do with time. Keep climbing the rope folks.   ...and don't get cocky about it.   
I wish every smoker could see this.......
Bumping for newbies..
Cool post.
Bump for newbies...
I did see some support groups that do not allow relapse or any use of nicotine replacement usage they seemed a bit extreme but signed up for one of those sites as well. The more support the better :-)
Dee...I have always said ..all roads lead to Rome...Being nicotine free ,as soon as possible is the only thing that matters...how you get there..is up to you...We never give up on anyone...
Such a perfect post and surely needed to be reminded today!  Thank you Nancy! :)
Bump
Bump
Bump for newbies..keep climbing !!!!
Nancy, Thanks for being here.... thank u for helping us nubes see the light at the end of the tunnel. 
The best!  Thanks Nancy! :D
Bump
Bump
For newbies !!
    Bump
    Bump for newbies ..
    Good read..
    Bump
    Time to repost !!!
    That's one of my favorite posts ever. In fact I've been thinking about it today, on the day of my tenth monthaversary. At this moment not-smoking is easy and obvious, almost effortless. First days, weeks, that takes courage, strenght and bravery.
    Bump for our newbies 
    Yes - this is a good one for sure and oh so true!
    Great post, I remember reading this one right after I had joined the group and was oh so new to the quit---This one stuck with me the whole way and was of great motivation!!!!!
    Me too....it was a big part of my early quit ...
    What an amazing read. So much truth in what the op is saying. How one day all us newbies will reach the top of that rope as long as we continue to climb. Thank you Doreen for this. You are an angel and so appreciated. Your quit is so encouraging for me. 
    This is a beautiful post and so inspiring. Thank you Doreen - are you reading my mind as you keep finding the right things for me to read? Thank you all here for your help. This is an awesome forum!!
    Great post, not seen it before, so true.        Quote                            
    For our newbies 
    Bump 
    Bump 
    Bump this great post for newbies
A profound little animation about Addiction,called 'Nuggets'
This is a good little short film about addiction.
Such a simple video, yet complex and powerful. 
On 10/29/2016 at 8:53 PM, Sazerac said:             A profound little animation about Addiction,                    called 'Nuggets'
47 minutes ago, Sazerac said:                                   47 minutes ago, Sazerac said:                           Spot on
    It was good to watch this again.....
On 10/29/2016 at 8:53 PM, Sazerac said:             A profound little animation about Addiction,                    called 'Nuggets'                                        Bump
Hey, you smoked for 42 years! Why on earth would you think you can get past the addiction in a couple of months? Cut yourself a break, for Pete's sake. The physical dependence ends rather quickly but the mental side of the addiction is how we beat it or why we relapse. All of the things that cause triggers after nicotine has left your body are mostly mental.  They can be memories, smells, a particular song, a ritual like smoking after dinner or with morning coffee, the first snowfall and the list can go on and on. It's going to take an entire year to experience the full cycle of life without smoking.  For some the triggers are few and far between while for others they're daily. What were some of things that caused you triggers early on and how often do you get them now and what are they?  One thing we know for sure is that the longer you stay quit, the less frequent they become until you can't even picture yourself smoking. It doesn't matter if your 1 week quit or 5 years.  Please share your experiences, past and present regarding triggers because with that comes hope and confidence for those who are struggling on their journey of their first full year without smoking.
For me -  The rituals. First smoke in the morning, after eating..those were the toughest craves initially. I changed routines up and focused on understanding the nature of triggers - understanding that all habits can be changed - and that the only thing causing a desire for the next cigarette was the previous cigarette. Then - I found myself hankering for a cigarette when the Spring came..again, analysing where the trigger came from, why, helped me overcome them. Even now - 9 months quit - I get the odd trigger. Sometimes a strong one. But I'm experienced now - I ignore it - and surprise surprise, it goes away.
.
Agree with all the above,.. for me a big trigger (habit) was talking on the phone, I reached for a cig before I answered the phone, lit one before I made a call, then chain smoked the entire time I talked... it was one of the hardest for me to get passed, I tried lollipops, Twizzlers, cinnamon toothpicks,pacing back and forth... but what worked for me was twirling  my hair with my free hand.. don't know why it works for me, and I really don't care why it works ( I still do it ).. it works and thats all that matters... goes to show - it's important  to keep trying things until you find one that works for you and your particular  smoking related trigger / habit... 
When I first quit, after the all the time cravings ended, I had alot of triggers such as the after work cig . They faded one by one. One of the most lingering was the first cig in the morning. Now I get some thoughts when driving in the car or when thinking about,strangely, fun times, such as vacation or a night out with friends. I do not think about smoking when stressed. I get wistful, as if smoking was ansign of youth, or freedom. I do this too with other substances. So, these are thoughts, not cravings. I dismiss these by imagining the death smoke filling my lungs, reversing the healing, and the disappointment of my family, friends and me.
Once in a blue moon a trigger escapes.  It's like nothing to deal with now though.  Like flicking a bug off your shoulder.  Every time you face down a trigger in the beginning, it builds up your strength.  Each trigger from then on out will become easier and easier to deal with.  Guaranteed :)
Once you convince your brian that you are finally ready to quit Nicotine for good, the triggers will fade away or just become an after thought. It really is like that one nut farmer always says whether we like hearing it or not " Easy Peasy "  Smile And Embrace The Quit  :)
Easy peasy.  Oh how I loathed those words. But I understand now.  Stick with it, and anyone can.
I had been putting a drug in my body for 52years at least,20 times a day....I knew my quit was not going to be a walk in the park...I didn't know how to live with out it....Everything I did reminded me of the dam things...I read Allen Carr....I read everything I could on the subject...I searched the Internet....In the end ..I felt like Rambo....ready and armed.....I fought the craves with all my knowledge....some were easy....some not so.....I can still get a crave....a thought....but know that's all it is....Somewhere deep in my memory....I had a life where smoking meant more to me than anything....Now...anything is more important than a smoke....There is only one way.....n.o.p.e.......
I had smoked for so many years I didn't think I could quit as I had so many things that would trigger me to want a smoke. It has been a while since I've had a trigger but in the beginning everything was a trigger. A smoke first thing in the morning was a must!Whenever I was on the phone, another huge trigger.Every time I got in the car I would light up.After meals was automatically smoke time!Any little job I finished reward time was a smoke.That is just a few of my triggers. I figure for the rest of my life there will be a trigger when I least expect it to crop up but they are now very few and far between and just a fleeting moment! Just have to remember NOPE!!!!
Yep same as Fay^^^^^^^^^ and alcohol and cig went hand in hand,Don't miss a single one of them except when I am ossified (drunk) and out with smokers, that is literally the only trigger I ever get, once in a blue moon,  well because I rarely get out lol
Q.  Why on earth would you think you can get past the addiction in a couple of months? A.  Because,  I am a Nicotine Addict and Denial has been my Comfort.
I have to say that Saturday cleaning for some reason gives me a craving.  I guess I used it as a reward to take a break from the cleaning, so after each room I would go outside and have a smoke before continuing on.  I still get one or two craves on Saturday now, but not nearly as strong or intense as they used to be.  Now its just all of a sudden and I think "wow, that was weird" and ignore it. I guess everything I did was based around smoking and cigarettes now that I think about it.  Cigarette in the morning with my coffee, on the way to work, during break times, drive home, and then whenever I felt like it at home.  One of the biggest triggers for me was the telephone.  Anytime the phone rang and it was for me, I'd grab my pack of cigarettes and lighter and head outside.  It was like a huge trigger.  I did avoid talking on the phone too much in the beginning, but I actually got used to it pretty quick.  Then of course right  before going to bed I'd have my last one for the day. Most typical things also were triggers for me; stress, need to ponder on an issue, or a problem, or because I just had a heated arguement with my spouse, child, or friend.  Really I'd find any reason, but those were also triggers. When I decided to quit smoking, I knew this time I had to be diligent and not a coward when it came to putting down the pack.  I picked a date that was in the near future and continued to smoke until then.  We were going on a big vacation with our grown daughters so I did not want to put that kind of stress on myself during a relaxing fun time.  I had said I would quit the first weekend after we returned home.  That Friday evening I smoked my last cigarette before going to bed.  I almost forgot in the morning and began looking for my pack of cigarettes only to realize that "oh yeah, I quit".  I was scared at that moment, but I made a commitment and I was going to stick to it.   So here I am going on 6 months later and glad I stuck with that commitment and decision.  I have no regrets of quitting and I do not miss it at all.  I have gained a few pounds, but am at the point of now I need to lose those pounds because I don't like how I feel in my own skin.   I noticed that my younger sister is using an e-cig and hoping she chooses to quit with it.   Even my best friend told me she was thinking about getting one, so maybe she will finally quit smoking as well.  If I was the inspiration for that, it makes me even more proud that I quit.
NayNay - you may be La Bandita's sister. The cleaning one was huge for her. A real surprise one for me is the hangover - if I over-indulge in alcohol (perish the thought!) the following morning - as well as feeling a bit rough - I get a trigger. Strange.
The only trigger that I still get frequently is if I am working on a challenging project...I will get a urge to walk outside and smoke and then come back to it.  I have learned that it is the walk outside that helps...not the smoke!
I remember as a "newbie" wanting to quickly get to that "happy" part of being cig free but for 2 yrs I kept shooting myself in the foot throwing away quits, especially after going almost 11 months. But yes EVERYONE  hates the beginning of their quits BUT to me by it being painful it will help you to never want to repeat the process.
This is true Beth.....guard your quit.....It could take years before your ready to try again.....mmmmmAt my age ...not a good idea.....much better to keep the quit....than to regret I threw it away....for nothing....Xxxxx
I can get past the addiction when I remember how much smoking sucks.  I'd rather not smoke than smoke.  That is really what it is.  I hate smoking.  Seriously, why do I want to do that?????  NO GOOD REASON!!!    Occasionally, I still get very strong cravings, but they are so much easier to overcome now - a mere NOPE really.  But at totally random times, the super strong feeling strikes and God, all I wish is that I could have a smoke.  At those moments, I have to remind myself of why I quit.  I have a list I keep one my phone that I refer to on those occasions.  After being quit for even a short time, it really is easy to overcome those cravings, but I won't deny that those feelings are still there - dumb addiction!    
In the beginning I experienced the ritual triggers.  First smoke in the evening, after meals and last one before bed.  It def took time to overcome those.  I had to create new rituals and eventually I stopped having those triggers. On occasion I still get a reminder that I used to smoke when I am stressed. I think it helps to live your life, triggers and all, right from the start.  Delaying the triggers just postpones a part of the process that is a must at some point for a successful quit.  You need to live your life without smoking just like you lived your life as a smoker.  Eventually, you break the associations.
I did discover over this past weekend that a usual trigger for me was always when I was upset or aggitated, or after a disagreement with my spouse or one of my daughters.  My youngest daughter upset me quite a bit Friday evening, and instead of grabbing a cigarette and going outside to get away from the arguement, I realized that now I just head to a different room away from the fight and busy myself with something to keep my mind occupied.  I also may go off to cry alone, but this past Friday evening I went to my "Zen" room and straightened out a few drawers on my vanity that were in a bit of disarray.  So, if every time I get upset about something, I now go off and keep my mind and hands busy with some type of cleaning or clearing out activity.  If this keeps up, I'll have gone through my whole house and everything will be so organized I'll drive myself crazy!   :P  :huh:  :rolleyes:  :wacko:  :blink:
    Please join in the discussion 
I have no idea how long I will be either physically, psychologically or habitually dealing with this addiction. All I think about is today...not smoking today and then getting off the nicotine in a month or two, depending on how I adjust to each step down.        But even after having quit for a year and half , 30 years ago I know my nicotine thinking can still get to me IF i forget. I had quit while I was pregnant and breastfeeding. The day I stopped breastfeeding I rewarded myself with ONE cigarette. Bought a pack, took ONE out and threw the rest away. That was it for me. In a month's time I was back to a pack a day. I had also quit for over a year about 10 years ago.      For me, I see that I will always have to be diligent and first thing every morning say NOPE for the rest of my life. While the urges may not be as frequent or hardly at all a year from now, I am an ADDICT. After my past two quit experiences, for me, it always tries and find a way back in to my life because I think I have beat it.         I know people who have quit and eventually get to a place they never want to have a cig again. If I am one of them on this quit...good. if I get urges the rest of my life and i have to say NOPE every morning for the rest of my life...good. as long as I don't ever have smoke a cigarette and I am  free, whatever works for me.       But for now, I will not smoke TODAY.Edited May 6, 2018 by lml
I am at 7 months and so far the only real bad time was exactly three months in. I was rummaging through some old magazines and of course every other page is a cigarette ad.        I would love to smoke really but probably best to avoid that bad habit
    For me cigarettes were a company in solitude. I have recently moved to another country and immediately it triggered a thought “now you’re on your own, sit and enjoy the cigarette”. I’ve been smoke-free for exactly six months and this quit has been relatively calm, so those thoughts were unexpected. But I’m glad I’ve beaten another scheme, will be stronger in case there’s some forgotten, hidden trigger lurking and waiting for its moment. 
5 minutes ago, Jetblack said:               I am at 7 months and so far the only real bad time was exactly three months in. I was rummaging through some old magazines and of course every other page is a cigarette ad.                            I would love to smoke really but probably best to avoid that bad habit      Do you really mean,  I would love to smoke ?  or, are you just saying that casually, jokey ?    If you 'would love to smoke really', I wonder why ?     Why would you love to smoke ?   You know, it is a lot more than a bad habit to avoid, don't you ?   Why would you love to smoke after you quit and,  I assume,  educated yourself about addiction ?     Why would you love to smoke ?
Sazerac - because my nerves are a mess without them. I am easily annoyed by stuff and also was before i started smoking.        brand new ela - Sometimes weird triggers do pop up. Thje best defense we have of course is to not have cigarettes handy. Or just we gotta tell ourselves "no". I went to get gas today and they had smokes for $3.50 (normally close to $6) I looked but then just thought, "No, isn't worth throwing out my quit. Besides, they will go back up soon as i am re-hooked".       I do not really associate with any smokers so avoiding the temptation when around them - I have no advice.Edited May 6, 2018 by Jetblack
32 minutes ago, Jetblack said:              Sazerac - because my nerves are a mess without them. I am easily annoyed by stuff and also was before i started smoking.                                    J,  I am sorry your nerves are a mess and you are locked into being easily annoyed by stuff.    There are better ways to deal with your nerves than romanticizing any relief you think smoking will provide.    That ain''t getting you anywhere, it's just keeping yourself tied to smokes.        I know the idea of intensive concentrated breathing , meditation, sometimes sounds cliche   but, it is the best thing on the planet to deal with nerves, annoyances, anger, fear, craziness, idiocy.    Ask me ! I've used meditation successfully  for all those things and I'm here to tell you, when you get serious...it friggin works.
    For me my triggers were stress and boredom. I have learned though over the past year I can deal with stress and I can find something to do when bored. Not everyday is easy but much easier than in the beginning. It short it's so true it does get easier, it may seem like it never will but it does, just hang on the ride will slow down.
    In the beginning everything was a trigger. Now it's seems to be when I do something new.        I like the message of this post. I need to have patience with myself. I mean I think I've been quit for a while so I should feel good and not want to smoke. I don't think about smoking often but sometimes do have a thought to smoke. I think about how horrid withdrawal is and how I don't want to go through it again. It seems to help when I have a flippant thought of having "just one".
I'm approaching 3 years. The first months were hard. I fell into a depression and had a lot of anxiety. At first, the morning, after meal, and cigarettes to take a 'break' from whatever I was doing were the hardest to let go of. Now I don't have those triggers but still occasionally think about smoking when I am bored. I had to believe that I really could quit for good after so many failures. Participating on a forum made all the difference for me.
20 hours ago, Jetblack said:                I am at 7 months and so far the only real bad time was exactly three months in. I was rummaging through some old magazines and of course every other page is a cigarette ad.                                        I would love to smoke really but probably best to avoid that bad habit           @Jetblack:  I think you and I are struggling with the same demon.  I don't want smoke in my lungs, but I want to smoke.  I don't want to smell like a cigarette, but I want to smoke.  I don't want to spend half of my disposable income on tobacco, but I want to smoke.  I don't want to die a slow, painful death, but I want to smoke.  I don't want to set such a horrible example for my kids, but I want to smoke.  I don't want to be out of breath when I'm walking up a flight of stairs, but I want to smoke.      So, I'll keep reading about addiction and NOPEing until it finally sinks in to my thick skull.  Maybe I'll always want to smoke, who knows?  I am an addict after all.  But, as long as we want to be non-smokers more than we want to be smokers, we can still win this battle.
6 minutes ago, TravellingSunny said:                        @Jetblack:  I think you and I are struggling with the same demon.  I don't want smoke in my lungs, but I want to smoke.  I don't want to smell like a cigarette, but I want to smoke.  I don't want to spend half of my disposable income on tobacco, but I want to smoke.  I don't want to die a slow, painful death, but I want to smoke.  I don't want to set such a horrible example for my kids, but I want to smoke.  I don't want to be out of breath when I'm walking up a flight of stairs, but I want to smoke.                                       So, I'll keep reading about addiction and NOPEing until it finally sinks in to my thick skull.  Maybe I'll always want to smoke, who knows?  I am an addict after all.  But, as long as we want to be non-smokers more than we want to be smokers, we can still win this battle.                I didn't feel romantically inclined once the reality of my/our addiction set in.    This takes some time but, it happens if you learn and understand.    Study till your eyes bleed if that's what it takes.    Don't allow it to take up space in your precious brains.  Save romance for ROMANCE.     Spring is here,  go fall in love again.  Go encourage a crush or something.     Nicotine is a fierce opponent but powerless when you understand how it worms it's way into your consciousness.  Addiction makes you lie to yourself.  Addiction is completely self serving. I understand that it takes time not only to identify it's hold over us but, to mercilessly weed it out.     But, you need to be the aggressor here and squelch any idolized version of smoking.     There is no use for addiction, no reason to woo addiction.  Smoking is not romance, it is not glam or fun.  That is just junkie talk. Stop Listening.  The junkie wants to kill you fgs, and keep you enslaved. What kind of life is that ?  What kind of death will that be?   Nicotine addiction is a burden and Smoking, however romantically applied,   may provide you a long,  gruesome and painful death, that is if you are lucky enough to die early.  Otherwise you get to linger..in horror of yourself and a horror to your family, to your carers.     A complete Horror show, ask Doreen, ask others how romantic it is.      I'm sorry for the rant. Please,  take what you need and leave the rest. This romance siht is holding you back, making it harder on yourself.    Be merciless and rip out all the roots of smokey romance    and give yourself a hug from me.
        Quote               Please,  take what you need and leave the rest.             I need it all! Thank you.  
51 minutes ago, Sazerac said:               This romance siht is holding you back, making it harder on yourself.                    Be merciless and rip out all the roots of smokey romance                    and give yourself a hug from me.﻿    @Sazerac, I know.  I know.  It certainly IS making it harder.  Everytime I think I've got a head start on the junkie thinking, I'm slammed back with a stupid "I want a cigarette" thought.  How I've been addressing that is to remind myself that it's NOT what I want, and then I just try to think about something else.  Anything else.  Whatever I've gotta do to divert my attention.       This isn't the first time your advice has mentioned being aggressive or merciless in stopping those thoughts.  But, HOW?  They just creep in there without my permission.  It feels like all I can do is dismiss the thought (or ridicule it) and move on.  But, when you say we should be merciless - what do you mean?  I'll be minding my own business, not even thinking about smoking, and then all of a sudden - BLAM!  I feel that "longing" for a cigarette, and I have to put the damnable thoughts aside and ignore them until it passes.  My brain knows I don't want it, but the thoughts pop in there anyway.  How do I stop those thoughts?
2 hours ago, Sazerac said:                                  I didn't feel romantically inclined once the reality of my/our addiction set in.                    This takes some time but, it happens if you learn and understand.    Study till your eyes bleed if that's what it takes.                    Don't allow it to take up space in your precious brains.  Save romance for ROMANCE.                     Spring is here,  go fall in love again.  Go encourage a crush or something.                                 Actual romance has caused more people more problems than tobacco ever has. Giving up tobacco then diving into a relationship (that probably won't work) is called "out of the frying pan and into the fire".        For Travellingsunny - the desire to smoke does decrease over time. Not sure how long til it is gone gone but it does decrease, I assume you have noticed it. I do not think we can stop them from trying to creep in any more than we could stop thought of sex when we were younger.
22 hours ago, Jetblack said:                                    brand new ela - Sometimes weird triggers do pop up. Thje best defense we have of course is to not have cigarettes handy. Or just we gotta tell ourselves "no". I went to get gas today and they had smokes for $3.50 (normally close to $6) I looked but then just thought, "No, isn't worth throwing out my quit. Besides, they will go back up soon as i am re-hooked".                                       I do not really associate with any smokers so avoiding the temptation when around them - I have no advice.          I don’t have any smokers around either.         Recently a craving hit me when i was leaving the metro station. I had been leaving stations for six months without any issues. This shows how strong this addiction is, the might may appear clear but it’s still there
16 minutes ago, Jetblack said:              I do not think we can stop them from trying to creep in any more than we could stop thought of sex when we were younger.                I think you're right, and when I look at Sazerac's earlier post, I think that might actually be part of it. Perhaps I AM being aggressive.. because I recognize the junkie thinking for what it is (most of the time) and make it a point to remind my silly self that those are NOT my thoughts, and then try to distract myself so I'm not listening to them.     Put in that context, I suppose I'm actually a lot tougher than I was giving myself credit for.
8 hours ago, TravellingSunny said:                      @Sazerac, I know.  I know.  It certainly IS making it harder.  Everytime I think I've got a head start on the junkie thinking, I'm slammed back with a stupid "I want a cigarette" thought.  How I've been addressing that is to remind myself that it's NOT what I want, and then I just try to think about something else.  Anything else.  Whatever I've gotta do to divert my attention.                                        This isn't the first time your advice has mentioned being aggressive or merciless in stopping those thoughts.  But, HOW?  They just creep in there without my permission.  It feels like all I can do is dismiss the thought (or ridicule it) and move on.  But, when you say we should be merciless - what do you mean?  I'll be minding my own business, not even thinking about smoking, and then all of a sudden - BLAM!  I feel that "longing" for a cigarette, and I have to put the damnable thoughts aside and ignore them until it passes.  My brain knows I don't want it, but the thoughts pop in there anyway.  How do I stop those thoughts?                   Sweet darling Quitter,  In the beginning, you just say NO, with all the bravado you can muster. You say NO,  as in N  O..   That is all you can do, just say NO and commit to NOPE a zillion times a day.       Your job is to root out the romantic thoughts that addiction has planted in your brain, root out your junkie thoughts because they don't serve you anymore. You Don't Smoke.    Stand up straight and realize,  you don't smoke.    End of discussion.
Well not just smoking but any form of tobacco is bad. The worst is chew. I mean it is gross and vile and BLEH.  EDIT - I use NO tobacco but have chewed before. It is horrendous. Like putting a piece of poop in your lip      But as we know, unless your name is Keith Richards, you cannot just poison your body for years and expect to live long. How the hell do some people survive like that?      If you are struggling to KTQ -  You think you got it rough, imagine being that guy and trying to quit. He just couldn't at this point. I mean it just could not happen no matter what.  YOU, on the other hand, have a chance still.        For Sunny - You are handling this. Yes, stand like a marine and realize you can beat the cigarettes. Giving up the quit - Stephen Hawking certainly would not stand for it. Ok that was a BAD joke but yeah, hang in there.Edited May 7, 2018 by Jetblack
10 hours ago, TravellingSunny said:             Everytime I think I've got a head start on the junkie thinking, I'm slammed back with a stupid "I want a cigarette" thought.                Sunny, you quit smoking.  Congratulations, that's a fine achievement.       That being said...don't beat yourself up over some random thoughts.  We're addicts.  We conditioned ourselves for years with cigarettes.  One day, we all made a decision to stop smoking.  Eventually, our minds and bodies caught up with the new program.        You thought: "I want a cigarette."  The thought came, and you didn't smoke.  Thoughts have exactly as much power as we give them.  You are in full control of your quit.  It has been estimated that the average human has over 50,000 thoughts per day.  That averages 35 thoughts per minute.  There's bound to be a few curveballs thrown in there.      The dichotomy of the quitter is something we all dealt with; I don't want to be a smoker, but I sure could go for a cigarette right about now.  We all sorted it out over time, so will you.
    Romancing the cancer stick ...!! I want just one !!!!.  Read some more...you need to know exactly what you are missing  ????.......you are missing nothing...you are gaining everything...  I was that terrified the day I quit...the only thing that bothered me was...will I fail again....   I knew this quit was different...I never romanced a smoke at all...welll...when your faced with amputation or a smoke...I chose my plates of meat ( feet )..... I know not everyone has...they have lost limbs.... This is the true nature of this addiction... It takes away reality....   The reality is..this is one hell of a addiction that is maming and killing millions...  Once you had read and watched all the stuff..you have it  in your mind..you are making the correct decision to rid yourself....you will be comfortable in your quit...  Embrace being free...   PS...if anyone is not quit sure how living with emphysema will effect your life..I would be more than happy to enlighten you... Shout as loud as you can...yipeee I'm a non smoker  ....( Allen Carr )......     
10 hours ago, Boo said:             The dichotomy of the quitter is something we all dealt with; I don't want to be a smoker, but I sure could go﻿ for a cigarette right about now.  We all sorted it out over time, so will you.               Can I just say that I love, love, love your very matter of fact, almost over-simplified way of describing things?  It really has a way of minimizing the scary stuff for me.  Thank you!
1 hour ago, TravellingSunny said:               Can I just say that I love, love, love your very matter of fact, almost over-simplified way of describing things?  It really has a way of minimizing the scary stuff for me.  Thank you!                You're welcome.     I took a circuitous route to my simple approach.  In the early days of my quit, I needlessly complicated things.  It wasn't helping the cause.  I was already a foggy-headed newbie and I compounded that with unnecessary mental gymnastics.  Then it hit me that the way to quit smoking is just to quit smoking.  Don't put things in your mouth and set them on fire.  Dead simple.  "Life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated." --Confucius
    Then﻿ it hit me th﻿at the ﻿way to﻿ quit﻿ sm﻿oki﻿ng is just to quit smoking.  Don't put things in your mouth and set them on fire.  Dead simple.﻿        This is it !!!!....any think else is just over thinking !!!!!!....
On 11/2/2014 at 4:03 AM, MarylandQuitter said:  Hey, you smoked for 42 years! Why on earth would you think you can get past the addiction in a couple of months? Cut yourself a break, for Pete's sake.                             The physical dependence ends rather quickly but the mental side of the addiction is how we beat it or why we relapse.                                       All of the things that cause triggers after nicotine has left your body are mostly mental.  They can be memories, smells, a particular song, a ritual like smoking after dinner or with morning coffee, the first snowfall and the list can go on and on.                                       It's going to take an entire year to experience the full cycle of life without smoking.  For some the triggers are few and far between while for others they're daily.                                      What were some of things that caused you triggers early on and how often do you get them now and what are they?  One thing we know for sure is that the longer you stay quit, the less frequent they become until you can't even picture yourself smoking.                                      It doesn't matter if your 1 week quit or 5 years.  Please share your experiences, past and present regarding triggers because with that comes hope and confidence for those who are struggling on their journey of their first full year without smoking.               bump
    There was always a lot of family drama in my life and dealing with the dysfunction could lead to many moments of chain smoking.  I always thought that, if I was the better person, I could change things.  I thought I was relieving  my stress by smoking but I was actually just being self destructive.  By facing those triggers,  I learned that the only responsibility I had was to myself and my happiness.  Quitting has finally given me the power to take back the control over my own life.  
I knew going into this quit that the mental/emotional side of my addiction was what my issue was and recent posts by another member made me really open that up and look at it. I know there will be others out there who won't get this and will think I'm off with the fairies or have a few roos loose in my top paddock but this is why a quit can be so different from person a to person b to person c... for some of us smoking has just as much to do with nicotine addiction as it has to do with filling an emotional and psychological void. Right so I know some of you are just itching to fire off and rebut the shit out of this but please just read it first then have at it. I'm just sharing my perspective and it might give some of you an insight into some of the more challenging personalities here.   So my first smoke was the night my grandad died of emphysema and I was legally an adult adult at the time so shoulda known better. Confession: I've kinda always liked the smell of smokes, right from when I was a kid...because that smell meant my grandad was around, or my aunty and it meant I was safe. So right from the get go that smell meant safety, and warmth, and love and acceptance...so mentally, long before I smoked, I was building associations with smoking that it was part of being safe, and loved, and protected.  I know this is bull, and most of those voids are now scars. I mean come on, smoke was never going to fill anything for more than a moment. But you see I could control smoking, it was never going to abandon me, or kick me out, or shut me out, it sure as shit wasn't gunna reject me...it was the safest  (  ) relationship I had. It made me feel good and wanted and needed. It was never going to take that away from me I could reject it IF I WANTED to...but it was never going to reject me or find me wanting or lacking.     So @hesteralumni23 sweetie, if you're still lurking this post is for you and all the other smokers who have given it an emotional value it doesn't deserve .. see HA23 had a sucky childhood too... Her mum died when she was young (abandonment)...she was the thrown into an unstable and abusive home life (massive list) so here she is trying to navigate the chaos that is her new home life and stay safe, grieve her mum, puberty, her sexuality and then along comes an abusive older girl who takes advantage of a confused, scared, lonely little girl and because she is so starved for love and affection she associates those feelings with smoking because after her abuser (no offence but no 18yo old, male or female, should be anywhere sexually near a 13yo....at that age 5 year gap is huge....5 years down the track not as much) made her feel loved, and touched tenderly, and wanted they smoked... So to feel those things again, she would smoke....it filled the void...and unlike her abuser who would vanish to the other side of the country or her mum who would die the ciggies were never going to abandon her... She controlled that ..they were always going to be there...I get it, because the story might be different but that's me. It's stupid, junky thinking....and where is this all going...right, it's all Bull!... But when your addiction is tied up into such an emotional need you kind of have to deal with that shit as well as all the other quit stuff. So .... Doesn't mean you can't quit you can, I did... It just means the journey is different.   1. Deal with the emotional voids.   2. Realise that your nicotine addiction feeds all those bad thoughts you have about yourself, those nicotine receptors play on all your insecurities and exploit them so that you will have a smoke "to feel better"....smoking does nothing to improve your worth and it certainly doesn't love you.   3. Learn about how nicotine addiction works, how it changes your brain. 4. Love yourself enough to stop the cycle of self abuse.    So for all of us it is as simple as committing to the decision to not put something in our mouth and smoking it...but for some of us that includes stripping down the why, looking at it and rebuilding into the person we should be.
14 hours ago, notsmokinjo said:             1. Deal with the emotional voids.                   2. Realise that your nicotine addiction feeds all those bad thoughts you have about yourself, those nicotine receptors play on all your insecurities and exploit them so that you will have a smoke "to feel better"....smoking does nothing to improve your worth and it certainly d﻿oesn't love you.                  3. Learn about how nicotine addiction works, how it changes your brain.                 4. Love yourself enough to stop the cycle of self abuse.                    So for all of us it is as simple as committing to the decision to not put something in our mouth and smoking it...but for some of us that includes stripping down the why, looking at it and rebuilding into the person we should be.               Rebuilding the person we really are.  A free person.        Thanks, Jo.  Awesome post.
On ‎5‎/‎7‎/‎2018 at 10:48 AM, Sazerac said:                                 I didn't feel romantically inclined once the reality of my/our addiction set in.                    This takes some time but, it happens if you learn and understand.    Study till your eyes bleed if that's what it takes.                    Don't allow it to take up space in your precious brains.  Save romance for ROMANCE.                     Spring is here,  go fall in love again.  Go encourage a crush or something.                                     Nicotine is a fierce opponent but powerless when you understand how it worms it's way into your consciousness.                  Addiction makes you lie to yourself.  Addiction is completely self serving.                 I understand that it takes time not only to identify it's hold over us but, to mercilessly weed it out.                     But, you need to be the aggressor here and squelch any idolized version of smoking.                                     There is no use for addiction, no reason to woo addiction.                  Smoking is not romance, it is not glam or fun.  That is just junkie talk. Stop Listening.  The junkie wants to kill you fgs, and keep you enslaved.                 What kind of life is that ?  What kind of death will that be?                   Nicotine addiction is a burden and Smoking, however romantically applied,                   may provide you a long,  gruesome and painful death, that is if you are lucky enough to die early.                  Otherwise you get to linger..in horror of yourself and a horror to your family, to your carers.                     A complete Horror show, ask Doreen, ask others how romantic it is.                                      I'm sorry for the rant.                 Please,  take what you need and leave the rest.                 This romance siht is holding you back, making it harder on yourself.                    Be merciless and rip out all the roots of smokey romance                    and give yourself a hug from me.            This is just what the Dr. order..... I needed to see this today !!!!
    Hey @QueenB,        These links may well help you, too   Red Flags   Nicodemons Lies        and a keeper list of our friend, Joel Spitzer's, videos,  Use Rationalization Videos        You are building a sturdy, successful quit Queen B !    Hold fast to your NOPE and protect your precious quit.
As a smoker for 38 years I appreciate this thread because I struggle and struggle and relapse and relapse, then find myself wondering why others are able to stay quit and why I give in to the junkie thinking and make the choice to smoke again ("just one last pack because ABC") over and over and over again, fully aware of what I'm doing but "feeling" powerless to stop (note I am aware I'm "feeling" powerless, not truly powerless in reality) Please don't read into this post as giving myself an excuse to relapse. Thats not what I mean. I mean, I am trying not to kick myself in the head everytime I relapse, but to stay aware of the fact that when you smoke for as long as some of us have smoked, its going to be hard, its going to be tough and instead of hating on ourselves and criticizing ourselves (that will lead to giving up trying) its better to acknowledge that its going to continue to be hard and that its time to try something different...take suggestions...try new things to avoid giving in. I need to shake up this quit. I'm tired of coming in here with a new quit over and over again. Its embarrassing and humbling for sure.
    YES!!!! @Sazerac Building up my knowledge and whatever else as my ammunition to fight this crazy addiction!!!!LOL   I say it like that because it has snuck up behind me when I least expected it and I had to fight for my life (not literally) but everything was on the line and I had to go in my bag of goody's (everything I learned here!) and fight that addiction like a soldier in war!!!!! Needless to say the addiction lost and I WON!!!!! To all my fellow ASHKICKERS;  keep fighting the good fight!! It is SO WORTH IT
@QueenB, you are young in your quit and must treat it as a priceless jewel.  Protect it with your life.     All sorts of craves and triggers will appear during your first year, that is just the way it is.    Be prepared, some will pop in out of the blue.      Every receptor in your brain will fire off, one at a time, screaming 'gimme a smoke !'  When you change up your response and replace this scream with a reward instead of a smoke, you WIN. You reclaim your brain and that receptor will no longer rely on nicotine.   It's pretty cool how our brain will heal itself.        This is why rewards are so important.   Your receptors are used to nicotine signalling a reward of dopamine,    soon they will give you a reward for looking at beauty or listening to music or dancing around, so happy to be nicotine free.       You are doing great ! Continue educating yourself...knowledge is power.
4 hours ago, MichelleDoesntSmokeAnymore said:               As a smoker for 38 years I appreciate this thread because I struggle and struggle and relapse and relapse, then find myself wondering why others are able to stay quit and why I give in to the junkie thinking and make the choice to smoke again ("just one last pack because ABC") over and over and over again, fully aware of what I'm doing but "feeling" powerless to stop (note I am aware I'm "feeling" powerless, not truly powerless in reality) Please don't read into this post as giving myself an excuse to relapse. Thats not what I mean. I mean, I am trying not to kick myself in the head everytime I relapse, but to stay aware of the fact that when you smoke for as long as some of us have smoked, its going to be hard, its going to be tough and instead of hating on ourselves and criticizing ourselves (that will lead to giving up trying) its better to acknowledge that its going to continue to be hard and that its time to try something different...take suggestions...try new things to avoid giving in. I need to shake up this quit. I'm tired of coming in here with a new quit over and over again. Its embarrassing and humbling for sure.               Michelle there is only one rule to a successful quit ....   Take smoking off the table ....Never stick anything in your mouth and set fire to it ...    You have to fight the craves...not give into them....   This is how many of us have done it ....    I smoked 52 years...it wasn't easy at first ...but I stuck to the rule ...  Day by day...Hour by Hour...or minute by minute ...
    Smoking sucks!  Being a nonsmoker is awesome!   Are you willing to fight to make the transition?
6 hours ago, MichelleDoesntSmokeAnymore said:               when you smoke for as long as some of us have smoked, its going to be hard, its going to be tough and instead of hating on ourselves and criticizing ourselves          Michelle, I smoked for 42 years.  The hating and disrespecting myself came the longer that I smoked.  I was embarrassed and ashamed that I could not quit.  I never thought I had the power to do so.  The power is within you and the support is here.  You need to be willing to embrace that fact that you will not smoke again and reach out when you think you will.
    Bump
How do you feel about a friend who has to go everywhere with you? Not only does he tag along all the time, but since he is so offensive and vulgar, you become unwelcome when with him. He has a peculiar odor that sticks to you wherever you go. Others think both of you stink.  He controls you totally. When he says jump, you jump. Sometimes in the middle of a blizzard or storm, he wants you to come to the store and pick him up. You would give your spouse hell if he or she did that to you all the time, but you can't argue with your friend. Sometimes, when you are out at a movie or play he says he wants you to go stand in the lobby with him and miss important scenes. Since he calls all the shots in your life, you go. Your friend doesn't like your choice of clothing either. Instead of politely telling you that you have lousy taste, he burns little holes in these items so you will want to throw them out. Sometimes, he tires of the furniture and gets rid of it too. Occasionally, he gets really nasty and decides the whole house must go. He gets pretty expensive to support. Not only is his knack of property destruction costly, but you must pay to keep him with you. In fact, he will cost you thousands of dollars over your lifetime. And you can count on one thing, he will never pay you a penny in return. Often at picnics you watch others playing vigorous activities and having lots of fun doing them. But your friend won't let you. He doesn't believe in physical activity. In his opinion, you are too old to have that kind of fun. So he kind of sits on your chest and makes it difficult for you to breathe. Now you don't want to go off and play with other people when you can't breathe, do you? Your friend does not believe in being healthy. He is really repulsed by the thought of you living a long and productive life. So every chance he gets he makes you sick. He helps you catch colds and flu. Not just by running out in the middle of the lousy weather to pick him up at the store. He is more creative than that. He carries thousands of poisons with him which he constantly blows in your face. When you inhale some of them, they wipe out cilia in your lungs which would have helped you prevent these diseases. But colds and flu are just his form of child's play. He especially likes diseases that slowly cripple you - like emphysema. He considers this disease great. Once he gets you to have this, you will give up all your other friends, family, career goals, activities - everything. You will just sit home and caress him, telling him what a great friend he is while you desperately gasp for air. But eventually your friend tires of you. He decides he no longer wishes to have your company. Instead of letting you go your separate ways, he decides to kill you. He has a wonderful arsenal of weapons behind him. In fact, he has been plotting your death since the day you met him. He picked all the top killers in society and did everything in his power to ensure you would get one of them. He overworked your heart and lungs. He clogged up the arteries to your heart, brain, and every other part of your body. In case you were too strong to succumb to this, he constantly exposed you to cancer causing agents. He knew he would get you sooner or later. Well, this is the story of your "friend," your cigarette. No real friend would do all this to you. Cigarettes are the worst possible enemies you ever had. They are expensive, addictive, socially unacceptable, and deadly. Consider all this and NEVER TAKE ANOTHER PUFF! Joel http://whyquit.com/whyquit/joelcigfriend.html
Friends Eh?
Don't make it your friend but it should be enemy so that it will become easy for you to make it away.
    A great post !!!
On 11/1/2014 at 8:05 PM, MarylandQuitter said:              How do you feel about a friend who has to go everywhere with you? Not only does he tag along all the time, but since he is so offensive and vulgar, you become unwelcome when with him. He has a peculiar odor that sticks to you wherever you go. Others think both of you stink.                                                                                  He controls you totally. When he says jump, you jump. Sometimes in the middle of a blizzard or storm, he wants you to come to the store and pick him up. You would give your spouse hell if he or she did that to you all the time, but you can't argue with your friend. Sometimes, when you are out at a movie or play he says he wants you to go stand in the lobby with him and miss important scenes. Since he calls all the shots in your life, you go. Your friend doesn't like your choice of clothing either. Instead of politely telling you that you have lousy taste, he burns little holes in these items so you will want to throw them out. Sometimes, he tires of the furniture and gets rid of it too. Occasionally, he gets really nasty and decides the whole house must go.                                                     He gets pretty expensive to support. Not only is his knack of property destruction costly, but you must pay to keep him with you. In fact, he will cost you thousands of dollars over your lifetime. And you can count on one thing, he will never pay you a penny in return.                                                       Often at picnics you watch others playing vigorous activities and having lots of fun doing them. But your friend won't let you. He doesn't believe in physical activity. In his opinion, you are too old to have that kind of fun. So he kind of sits on your chest and makes it difficult for you to breathe. Now you don't want to go off and play with other people when you can't breathe, do you?                                                      Your friend does not believe in being healthy. He is really repulsed by the thought of you living a long and productive life. So every chance he gets he makes you sick. He helps you catch colds and flu. Not just by running out in the middle of the lousy weather to pick him up at the store. He is more creative than that. He carries thousands of poisons with him which he constantly blows in your face. When you inhale some of them, they wipe out cilia in your lungs which would have helped you prevent these diseases.                                                      But colds and flu are just his form of child's play. He especially likes diseases that slowly cripple you - like emphysema. He considers this disease great. Once he gets you to have this, you will give up all your other friends, family, career goals, activities - everything. You will just sit home and caress him, telling him what a great friend he is while you desperately gasp for air.                                                        But eventually your friend tires of you. He decides he no longer wishes to have your company. Instead of letting you go your separate ways, he decides to kill you. He has a wonderful arsenal of weapons behind him. In fact, he has been plotting your death since the day you met him. He picked all the top killers in society and did everything in his power to ensure you would get one of them. He overworked your heart and lungs. He clogged up the arteries to your heart, brain, and every other part of your body. In case you were too strong to succumb to this, he constantly exposed you to cancer causing agents. He knew he would get you sooner or later.                                                       Well, this is the story of your "friend," your cigarette. No real friend would do all this to you. Cigarettes are the worst possible enemies you ever had. They are expensive, addictive, socially unacceptable, and deadly. Consider all this and NEVER TAKE ANOTHER PUFF!         Joelhttp://whyquit.com/whyquit/joelcigfriend.html    bump   for @Diane      and here is a short video dramatizing this essay     Edited August 5 by Sazerac
    This is one of my favourites....
On ‎11‎/‎1‎/‎2014 at 9:05 PM, MarylandQuitter said:             How do you feel about a friend who has to go everywhere with you? Not only does he tag along all the time, but since he is so offensive and vulgar, you become unwelcome when with him. He has a peculiar odor that sticks to you wherever you go. Others think both of you stink.                                                                                  He controls you totally. When he says jump, you jump. Sometimes in the middle of a blizzard or storm, he wants you to come to the store and pick him up. You would give your spouse hell if he or she did that to you all the time, but you can't argue with your friend. Sometimes, when you are out at a movie or play he says he wants you to go stand in the lobby with him and miss important scenes. Since he calls all the shots in your life, you go. Your friend doesn't like your choice of clothing either. Instead of politely telling you that you have lousy taste, he burns little holes in these items so you will want to throw them out. Sometimes, he tires of the furniture and gets rid of it too. Occasionally, he gets really nasty and decides the whole house must go.                                                     He gets pretty expensive to support. Not only is his knack of property destruction costly, but you must pay to keep him with you. In fact, he will cost you thousands of dollars over your lifetime. And you can count on one thing, he will never pay you a penny in return.                                                       Often at picnics you watch others playing vigorous activities and having lots of fun doing them. But your friend won't let you. He doesn't believe in physical activity. In his opinion, you are too old to have that kind of fun. So he kind of sits on your chest and makes it difficult for you to breathe. Now you don't want to go off and play with other people when you can't breathe, do you?                                                      Your friend does not believe in being healthy. He is really repulsed by the thought of you living a long and productive life. So every chance he gets he makes you sick. He helps you catch colds and flu. Not just by running out in the middle of the lousy weather to pick him up at the store. He is more creative than that. He carries thousands of poisons with him which he constantly blows in your face. When you inhale some of them, they wipe out cilia in your lungs which would have helped you prevent these diseases.                                                      But colds and flu are just his form of child's play. He especially likes diseases that slowly cripple you - like emphysema. He considers this disease great. Once he gets you to have this, you will give up all your other friends, family, career goals, activities - everything. You will just sit home and caress him, telling him what a great friend he is while you desperately gasp for air.                                                        But eventually your friend tires of you. He decides he no longer wishes to have your company. Instead of letting you go your separate ways, he decides to kill you. He has a wonderful arsenal of weapons behind him. In fact, he has been plotting your death since the day you met him. He picked all the top killers in society and did everything in his power to ensure you would get one of them. He overworked your heart and lungs. He clogged up the arteries to your heart, brain, and every other part of your body. In case you were too strong to succumb to this, he constantly exposed you to cancer causing agents. He knew he would get you sooner or later.                                                       Well, this is the story of your "friend," your cigarette. No real friend would do all this to you. Cigarettes are the worst possible enemies you ever had. They are expensive, addictive, socially unacceptable, and deadly. Consider all this and NEVER TAKE ANOTHER PUFF!         Joelhttp://whyquit.com/whyquit/joelcigfriend.html   WOW..... And to think that I used to say...My little buddies!!!!! Heck No Man!!!!!! Kick Rocks.... Get Lost.....Beat It...
    Bump for newbies !!
    Bump
    Bump
Not only is the body recovering from the habit of smoking, de-toxing from smoking and dealing with nicotine addiction   but, all the chemicals in cigarettes that we've put in our bloodstreams also need time to purge from our bodies.    There are many, many poisons listed and every one I google blows my mind.   We must keep our quits, there is no other reasonable choice.        Acetanisole,    Acetic Acid,    Acetoin,    Acetophenone,   6-Acetoxydihydrotheaspirane,    2-Acetyl-3- Ethylpyrazine,  2-Acetyl-5-Methylfuran, Acetylpyrazine, 2-Acetylpyridine,   3-Acetylpyridine,   2-Acetylthiazole,   Aconitic Acid,  dl-Alanine, Alfalfa Extract,    Allspice Extract,   Oleoresin,  And Oil,    Allyl Hexanoate,    Allyl Ionone,   Almond Bitter Oil,  Ambergris Tincture, Ammonia,    Ammonium Bicarbonate,   Ammonium Hydroxide, Ammonium Phosphate Dibasic, Ammonium Sulfide,   Amyl Alcohol,   Amyl Butyrate,  Amyl Formate,   Amyl Octanoate, alpha-Amylcinnamaldehyde,   Amyris Oil, trans-Anethole, Angelica Root Extract, Oil and Seed Oil,    Anise,  Anise Star, Extract and Oils,   Anisyl Acetate, Anisyl Alcohol, Anisyl Formate, Anisyl Phenylacetate,   Apple Juice Concentrate, Extract, and Skins,    Apricot Extract and Juice Concentrate,  1-Arginine, Asafetida Fluid Extract And Oil,    Ascorbic Acid,  1-Asparagine Monohydrate,   1-Aspartic Acid,    Balsam Peru and Oil,    Basil Oil,  Bay Leaf, Oil and Sweet Oil,    Beeswax White,  Beet Juice Concentrate, Benzaldehyde,   Benzaldehyde Glyceryl Acetal,   Benzoic Acid, Benzoin,  Benzoin Resin,  Benzophenone,   Benzyl Alcohol, Benzyl Benzoate,    Benzyl Butyrate,    Benzyl Cinnamate,   Benzyl Propionate,  Benzyl Salicylate,  Bergamot Oil,   Bisabolene, Black Currant Buds Absolute,    Borneol,    Bornyl Acetate, Buchu Leaf Oil, 1,3-Butanediol, 2,3-Butanedione,    1-Butanol,  2-Butanone, 4(2-Butenylidene)-3,5,5-Trimethyl-2-Cyclohexen-1-One,   Butter, Butter Esters, and Butter Oil,  Butyl Acetate,  Butyl Butyrate, Butyl Butyryl Lactate,  Butyl Isovalerate,  Butyl Phenylacetate,    Butyl Undecylenate, 3-Butylidenephthalide,  Butyric Acid,   Cadinene,   Caffeine,   Calcium Carbonate,  Camphene,   Cananga Oil,    Capsicum Oleoresin, Caramel Color,  Caraway Oil,    Carbon Dioxide, Cardamom Oleoresin, Extract, Seed Oil, and Powder,  Carob Bean and Extract, beta-Carotene,  Carrot Oil, Carvacrol,  4-Carvomenthenol,   1-Carvone,  beta-Caryophyllene, beta-Caryophyllene Oxide,   Cascarilla Oil and Bark Extract,    Cassia Bark Oil,    Cassie Absolute and Oil,    Castoreum Extract, Tincture and Absolute,   Cedar Leaf Oil, Cedarwood Oil Terpenes and Virginiana,  Cedrol, Celery Seed Extract, Solid, Oil, And Oleoresin, Cellulose Fiber,    Chamomile Flower Oil And Extract,   Chicory Extract,    Chocolate,  Cinnamaldehyde, Cinnamic Acid,  Cinnamon Leaf Oil, Bark Oil, and Extract,   Cinnamyl Acetate,   Cinnamyl Alcohol,   Cinnamyl Cinnamate, Cinnamyl Isovalerate,   Cinnamyl Propionate,    Citral, Citric Acid,    Citronella Oil, dl-Citronellol, Citronellyl Butyrate,   Citronellyl Isobutyrate,    Civet Absolute, Clary Oil,  Clover Tops, Red Solid Extract, Cocoa,  Cocoa Shells, Extract, Distillate And Powder,   Coconut Oil,    Coffee, Cognac White and Green Oil, Copaiba Oil,    Coriander Extract and Oil,  Corn Oil,   Corn Silk,  Costus Root Oil,    Cubeb Oil,  Cuminaldehyde,  para-Cymene,    1-Cysteine, Dandelion Root Solid Extract,   Davana Oil, 2-trans, 4-trans-Decadienal,    delta-Decalactone,  gamma-Decalactone,  Decanal,    Decanoic Acid,  1-Decanol,  2-Decenal,  Dehydromenthofurolactone,   Diethyl Malonate,   Diethyl Sebacate,   2,3-Diethylpyrazine,    Dihydro Anethole,   5,7-Dihydro-2-Methylthieno(3,4-D) Pyrimidine,   Dill Seed Oil and Extract,  meta-Dimethoxybenzene,  para-Dimethoxybenzene,  2,6-Dimethoxyphenol,    Dimethyl Succinate, 3,4-Dimethyl-1,2-Cyclopentanedione, 3,5- Dimethyl-1,2-Cyclopentanedione,    3,7-Dimethyl-1,3,6-Octatriene,  4,5-Dimethyl-3-Hydroxy-2,5-Dihydrofuran-2-One,  6,10-Dimethyl-5,9-Undecadien-2-One, 3,7-Dimethyl-6-Octenoic Acid,   2,4-Dimethylacetophenone,   alpha,para-Dimethylbenzyl Alcohol,  alpha,alpha-Dimethylphenethyl Acetate,  alpha,alpha Dimethylphenethyl Butyrate, 2,3-Dimethylpyrazine,   2,5-Dimethylpyrazine,   2,6-Dimethylpyrazine,   Dimethyltetrahydrobenzofuranone,    delta-Dodecalactone,    gamma-Dodecalactone,    para-Ethoxybenzaldehyde,    Ethyl 10-Undecenoate,   Ethyl 2-Methylbutyrate, Ethyl Acetate,  Ethyl Acetoacetate, Ethyl Alcohol,  Ethyl Benzoate, Ethyl Butyrate, Ethyl Cinnamate,    Ethyl Decanoate,    Ethyl Fenchol,  Ethyl Furoate,  Ethyl Heptanoate,   Ethyl Hexanoate,    Ethyl Isovalerate,  Ethyl Lactate,  Ethyl Laurate,  Ethyl Levulinate,   Ethyl Maltol,   Ethyl Methyl Phenylglycidate,   Ethyl Myristate,    Ethyl Nonanoate,    Ethyl Octadecanoate,    Ethyl Octanoate,    Ethyl Oleate,   Ethyl Palmitate,    Ethyl Phenylacetate,    Ethyl Propionate,   Ethyl Salicylate,   Ethyl trans-2-Butenoate,    Ethyl Valerate, Ethyl Vanillin, 2-Ethyl (or Methyl)-(3,5 and 6)-Methoxypyrazine,    2-Ethyl-1-Hexanol, 3-Ethyl -2 -Hydroxy-2-Cyclopenten-1-One, 2-Ethyl-3, (5 or 6)-Dimethylpyrazine,   5-Ethyl-3-Hydroxy-4-Methyl-2(5H)-Furanone,  2-Ethyl-3-Methylpyrazine,   4-Ethylbenzaldehyde,    4-Ethylguaiacol,    para-Ethylphenol,   3-Ethylpyridine,    Eucalyptol, Farnesol,   D-Fenchone, Fennel Sweet Oil,   Fenugreek, Extract, Resin, and Absolute,    Fig Juice Concentrate,  Food Starch Modified,   Furfuryl Mercaptan, 4-(2-Furyl)-3-Buten-2-One,  Galbanum Oil,   Genet Absolute, Gentian Root Extract,   Geraniol,   Geranium Rose Oil,  Geranyl Acetate,    Geranyl Butyrate,   Geranyl Formate,    Geranyl Isovalerate,    Geranyl Phenylacetate,  Ginger Oil and Oleoresin,   1-Glutamic Acid,    1-Glutamine,    Glycerol,   Glycyrrhizin Ammoniated,    Grape Juice Concentrate,    Guaiac Wood Oil,    Guaiacol,   Guar Gum,   2,4-Heptadienal,    gamma-Heptalactone, Heptanoic Acid, 2-Heptanone,    3-Hepten-2-One, 2-Hepten-4-One, 4-Heptenal, trans -2-Heptenal,  Heptyl Acetate, omega-6-Hexadecenlactone,   gamma-Hexalactone,  Hexanal,    Hexanoic Acid,  2-Hexen-1-Ol,   3-Hexen-1-Ol,   cis-3-Hexen-1-Yl Acetate,   2-Hexenal,  3-Hexenoic Acid,    trans-2-Hexenoic Acid,  cis-3-Hexenyl Formate,  Hexyl 2-Methylbutyrate, Hexyl Acetate,  Hexyl Alcohol,  Hexyl Phenylacetate,    1-Histidine,    Honey,  Hops Oil,   Hydrolyzed Milk Solids, Hydrolyzed Plant Proteins,  5-Hydroxy-2,4-Decadienoic Acid delta- Lactone,  4-Hydroxy-2,5-Dimethyl-3(2H)-Furanone,  2-Hydroxy-3,5,5-Trimethyl-2-Cyclohexen-1-One,   4-Hydroxy -3-Pentenoic Acid Lactone,    2-Hydroxy-4-Methylbenzaldehyde, 4-Hydroxybutanoic Acid Lactone, Hydroxycitronellal, 6-Hydroxydihydrotheaspirane,    4-(para-Hydroxyphenyl)-2-Butanone,  Hyssop Oil, Immortelle Absolute and Extract,    alpha-Ionone,   beta-Ionone,    alpha-Irone,    Isoamyl Acetate,    Isoamyl Benzoate,   Isoamyl Butyrate,   Isoamyl Cinnamate,  Isoamyl Formate, Isoamyl Hexanoate, Isoamyl Isovalerate,    Isoamyl Octanoate,  Isoamyl Phenylacetate,  Isobornyl Acetate,  Isobutyl Acetate,   Isobutyl Alcohol,   Isobutyl Cinnamate, Isobutyl Phenylacetate, Isobutyl Salicylate,    2-Isobutyl-3-Methoxypyrazine,   alpha-Isobutylphenethyl Alcohol,    Isobutyraldehyde,   Isobutyric Acid,    d,l-Isoleucine, alpha-Isomethylionone,  2-Isopropylphenol,  Isovaleric Acid,    Jasmine Absolute, Concrete and Oil, Kola Nut Extract,   Labdanum Absolute and Oleoresin,    Lactic Acid,    Lauric Acid,    Lauric Aldehyde,    Lavandin Oil,   Lavender Oil,   Lemon Oil and Extract,  Lemongrass Oil, 1-Leucine,  Levulinic Acid, Licorice Root, Fluid, Extract and Powder,   Lime Oil ,  Linalool,   Linalool Oxide, Linalyl Acetate,    Linden Flowers, Lovage Oil And Extract, 1-Lysine,   Mace Powder, Extract and Oil ,  Magnesium Carbonate,    Malic Acid, Malt and Malt Extract,  Maltodextrin,   Maltol, Maltyl Isobutyrate, Mandarin Oil,   Maple Syrup and Concentrate,    Mate Leaf, Absolute and Oil,    para-Mentha-8-Thiol-3-One,  Menthol,    Menthone,   Menthyl Acetate,    dl-Methionine,  Methoprene, 2-Methoxy-4-Methylphenol,   2-Methoxy-4-Vinylphenol,    para-Methoxybenzaldehyde,   1-(para-Methoxyphenyl)-1-Penten-3-One,  4-(para-Methoxyphenyl)-2-Butanone,  1-(para-Methoxyphenyl)-2-Propanone, Methoxypyrazine,    Methyl 2-Furoate,   Methyl 2-Octynoate, Methyl 2-Pyrrolyl Ketone,   Methyl Anisate, Methyl Anthranilate,    Methyl Benzoate,    Methyl Cinnamate,   Methyl Dihydrojasmonate,    Methyl Ester of Rosin, Partially Hydrogenated,  Methyl Isovalerate, Methyl Linoleate (48%), Methyl Linolenate (52%) Mixture,    Methyl Naphthyl Ketone, Methyl Nicotinate,  Methyl Phenylacetate,   Methyl Salicylate,  Methyl Sulfide, 3-Methyl-1-Cyclopentadecanone,  4-Methyl-1-Phenyl-2-Pentanone,  5-Methyl-2-Phenyl-2-Hexenal,    5-Methyl-2-Thiophenecarboxaldehyde, 6-Methyl-3,-5-Heptadien-2-One,  2-Methyl-3-(para-Isopropylphenyl) Propionaldehyde,  5-Methyl-3-Hexen-2-One, 1-Methyl-3Methoxy-4-Isopropylbenzene,   4-Methyl-3-Pentene-2-One,   2-Methyl-4-Phenylbutyraldehyde, 6-Methyl-5-Hepten-2-One,    4-Methyl-5-Thiazoleethanol, 4-Methyl-5-Vinylthiazole,   Methyl-alpha-Ionone,    Methyl-trans-2-Butenoic Acid,   4-Methylacetophenone,   para-Methylanisole, alpha-Methylbenzyl Acetate, alpha-Methylbenzyl Alcohol, 2-Methylbutyraldehyde,  3-Methylbutyraldehyde,  2-Methylbutyric Acid,   alpha-Methylcinnamaldehyde, Methylcyclopentenolone, 2-Methylheptanoic Acid, 2-Methylhexanoic Acid,  3-Methylpentanoic Acid, 4-Methylpentanoic Acid, 2-Methylpyrazine,   5-Methylquinoxaline,    2-Methyltetrahydrofuran-3-One,  (Methylthio)Methylpyrazine (Mixture Of Isomers),    3-Methylthiopropionaldehyde,    Methyl 3-Methylthiopropionate,  2-Methylvaleric Acid,   Mimosa Absolute and Extract,    Molasses Extract and Tincture,  Mountain Maple Solid Extract,   Mullein Flowers,    Myristaldehyde, Myristic Acid,  Myrrh Oil,  beta-Napthyl Ethyl Ether,   Nerol,  Neroli Bigarde Oil, Nerolidol,  Nona-2-trans,6-cis-Dienal,  2,6-Nonadien-1-Ol,  gamma-Nonalactone,  Nonanal,    Nonanoic Acid,  Nonanone,   trans-2-Nonen-1-Ol, 2-Nonenal,  Nonyl Acetate,  Nutmeg Powder and Oil,  Oak Chips Extract and Oil,  Oak Moss Absolute,  9,12-Octadecadienoic Acid (48%) And 9,12,15-Octadecatrienoic Acid (52%),    delta-Octalactone,  gamma-Octalactone,  Octanal,    Octanoic Acid,  1-Octanol,  2-Octanone, 3-Octen-2-One,  1-Octen-3-Ol,   1-Octen-3-Yl Acetate,   2-Octenal,  Octyl Isobutyrate,  Oleic Acid ,    Olibanum Oil,   Opoponax Oil And Gum,   Orange Blossoms Water, Absolute, and Leaf Absolute, Orange Oil and Extract, Origanum Oil,   Orris Concrete Oil and Root Extract,    Palmarosa Oil,  Palmitic Acid,  Parsley Seed Oil,   Patchouli Oil,  omega-Pentadecalactone, 2,3-Pentanedione,   2-Pentanone,    4-Pentenoic Acid,   2-Pentylpyridine,   Pepper Oil, Black And White,    Peppermint Oil, Peruvian (Bois De Rose) Oil,    Petitgrain Absolute, Mandarin Oil and Terpeneless Oil,  alpha-Phellandrene, 2-Phenenthyl Acetate,   Phenenthyl Alcohol, Phenethyl Butyrate, Phenethyl Cinnamate,    Phenethyl Isobutyrate,  Phenethyl Isovalerate,  Phenethyl Phenylacetate,    Phenethyl Salicylate,   1-Phenyl-1-Propanol,    3-Phenyl-1-Propanol,    2-Phenyl-2-Butenal, 4-Phenyl-3-Buten-2-Ol,  4-Phenyl-3-Buten-2-One, Phenylacetaldehyde, Phenylacetic Acid,  1-Phenylalanine,    3-Phenylpropionaldehyde,    3-Phenylpropionic Acid, 3-Phenylpropyl Acetate, 3-Phenylpropyl Cinnamate,   2-(3-Phenylpropyl)Tetrahydrofuran,  Phosphoric Acid,    Pimenta Leaf Oil,   Pine Needle Oil, Pine Oil, Scotch,  Pineapple Juice Concentrate,    alpha-Pinene, beta-Pinene,  D-Piperitone,   Piperonal,  Pipsissewa Leaf Extract,    Plum Juice, Potassium Sorbate,  1-Proline,  Propenylguaethol,   Propionic Acid, Propyl Acetate, Propyl para-Hydroxybenzoate,    Propylene Glycol,   3-Propylidenephthalide, Prune Juice and Concentrate,    Pyridine,   Pyroligneous Acid And Extract,      Pyrrole,    Pyruvic Acid,   Raisin Juice Concentrate,   Rhodinol,   Rose Absolute and Oil,  Rosemary Oil,   Rum,    Rum Ether,  Rye Extract,    Sage, Sage Oil, and Sage Oleoresin, Salicylaldehyde,    Sandalwood Oil, Yellow, Sclareolide,    Skatole,    Smoke Flavor,   Snakeroot Oil,  Sodium Acetate, Sodium Benzoate,    Sodium Bicarbonate, Sodium Carbonate,   Sodium Chloride,    Sodium Citrate, Sodium Hydroxide,   Solanone,   Spearmint Oil,  Styrax Extract, Gum and Oil,    Sucrose Octaacetate,    Sugar Alcohols, Sugars, Tagetes Oil,    Tannic Acid,    Tartaric Acid,  Tea Leaf and Absolute,  alpha-Terpineol,    Terpinolene,    Terpinyl Acetate,   5,6,7,8-Tetrahydroquinoxaline,  1,5,5,9-Tetramethyl-13-Oxatricyclo(8.3.0.0(4,9))Tridecane,  2,3,4,5, and 3,4,5,6-Tetramethylethyl-Cyclohexanone,    2,3,5,6-Tetramethylpyrazine,    Thiamine Hydrochloride, Thiazole,   1-Threonine,    Thyme Oil, White and Red,   Thymol, Tobacco Extracts,   Tochopherols (mixed),   Tolu Balsam Gum and Extract,    Tolualdehydes,  para-Tolyl 3-Methylbutyrate,    para-Tolyl Acetaldehyde,    para-Tolyl Acetate, para-Tolyl Isobutyrate, para-Tolyl Phenylacetate,   Triacetin,  2-Tridecanone,  2-Tridecenal,   Triethyl Citrate,   3,5,5-Trimethyl -1-Hexanol, para,alpha,alpha-Trimethylbenzyl Alcohol,   4-(2,6,6-Trimethylcyclohex-1-Enyl)But-2-En-4-One,   2,6,6-Trimethylcyclohex-2-Ene-1,4-Dione,    2,6,6-Trimethylcyclohexa-1,3-Dienyl Methan, 4-(2,6,6-Trimethylcyclohexa-1,3-Dienyl)But-2-En-4-One,  2,2,6-Trimethylcyclohexanone,   2,3,5-Trimethylpyrazine,    1-Tyrosine, delta-Undercalactone,   gamma-Undecalactone,    Undecanal,  2-Undecanone, 1 0-Undecenal,    Urea,   Valencene,  Valeraldehyde,  Valerian Root Extract, Oil and Powder,  Valeric Acid,   gamma-Valerolactone,    Valine, Vanilla Extract And Oleoresin,  Vanillin,   Veratraldehyde, Vetiver Oil,    Vinegar,    Violet Leaf Absolute,   Walnut Hull Extract,    Water,  Wheat Extract And Flour,    Wild Cherry Bark Extract,   Wine and Wine Sherry,   Xanthan Gum,    3,4-Xylenol,    Yeast
    Oh shit, how long this list is. It hit me straight in the face. I contain more chemicals than a pharmacy. Horrifying. 
    Add to this hundreds of more compounds created by lighting the cigarette.   We were freebasing an astronomical amount of poison. 
Does it really matter what is in a cigarette?   Is someone going to say, "Oh no, I had no idea about all the chemicals". If there ARE that many different chemicals, how many of any single one would there be? Have you actually looked through this list? It looks like water, sugar, coffee, cocoa, and maple syrup are on there. And that is just skimming that list.       OK, is it the REAL maple syrup that costs $10 a pint or the fake stuff like Aunt Jemima?        A lot of that stuff is everyday food ingredients.       So I guess the main point is -  Why is actual maple syrup sold in glass containers but the fake stuff is in plastic bottles?    Also, since i eat a ton of sugar and drink a lot of water and cocoa, does that mean I relapsed?
I don't know the technical name but I remember being told once that cigarettes contain bronchodilators (?).  It helps your airways open up when you inhale so you don't cough.      When I used to have a cough I swore that smoking helped me. Maybe it wasn't complete BS if the bronchodilator thing is true. Edited to say I'm not saying it's a good thing!!       It's weird because I read every single ingredient on everything I use but never ever thought about it when I smoked. I wonder why the ingredients aren't listed on packs. Apart from the fact the pack would need to be the size of a shoe box. Edited March 8 by Lilly
Lets just look at just one ingredient... cocoa... why would they add that... 2 reasons... it is improves the flavour and its broncheodilator. .... Because when cocoa burns it undergoes a chemical change not just a physical change the chemicals released from it are toxic... in high enough doses...       So the nae sayers are right, if all of these chemicals are in a single smoke they are in minute quantities in that single smoke. Sure some are like iron, not able to be stored in your body, but some are like mercury and will stay in you body for years, if not longer, building in toxicity levels and concentrations until they hit critical levels. Sure the levels in one smoke are microscopic... so what! We aren't here because we smoked one smoke... we are here because we smoked multiple smokes, every day, for years.... lots of the items listed are harmless or even healthy on their own... not all alter chemically when they burn... not all combine within other items listed to make something new and more deadly when they burn and on a per smoke basis the levels are not significant but the the levels of some of these build higher and higher with time. Every smoke adds to your internal toxisity... its not a joke or scare tactics.... those things listed up their are what we need to be aware of.... what we need to know that if we continue to smoke we are putting in our bodies.
    If they didn't put some nice sweet flavours  in the mix ..they would be too bitter to smoke     Some smokers just might not be aware of all the stuff that's goes into cigarettes...I think it was a good Reminder Sally....     
    It is miraculous that our bodies recover from this onslaught.       Also, check out The Great Tobacco Plague, plenty of links and information
    It's just insane... that's what it is..      
Newbies , Lurkers...    Thought I would share my story...Freedom is there...for every smoker ,you just have to want it badly enough...      I smoked my whole adult life....a whopping 52 years ... I tried to Quit hundreds of times ...all lead to failure....I resigned myself to the simple fact I would probably die a smoker....  Then the unthinkable happened ....I was given a choice quit or face quite possibly double amputation of both feet ...   Wow!!!....this news knocked me down for sure ....   My last few cigerettes were smoked with tears flowing ...I was in trouble   I had to try something ...I had to try again...I scanned the internet looking for any help out there ,that would work this time ... I found a smoking forum....I thought I've never tried this before ..might as well give it a go ...  Here I am 6 years later smoke free....  The difference this time was quitting with folks who were just like me,understood what I was going through..supported me every step of the way .... We laugh ...alot ....we cry too....we make friends....we are a family....   Don't think your different from me ...and you carnt quit.....you can ...    The only thing you need is commitment and the desire ....
    Thank you for posting this Doreen - I have had the same thoughts I will die a smoker. I have a week right now and I am embracing that. But your post gives me hope. 
37 minutes ago, HeatherDianne said:             Thank you for posting this Doreen - I have had the same thoughts I will die a smoker. I have a week right now and I am embracing that. But your post gives me hope.             You can H....just stick with it ...fight ....the craves will lessen and die altogether...   Before you know it...you will embrace being smoke free...   Just stay close to the board ,at least for the first 12 months ....
    Thank you for sharing your story Doreen, it's truly an eye opener for anyone still on the fence about quitting, xoxo
    I am so grateful to you for saving your feet and your LIFE !    When I first quit, five or so months after you, I lurked and watched your journey.  You were helping people from the get go, you are a great one, Big D.    We are so lucky to have you here.    
    I am really happy you are here with both feet on the ground supporting the ones in need Doreen!! Thank you for sharing your story 
I'm now on Day 21 of the quit and things are going very well so far.  There is one strange thing that I have been experiencing- a couple of night I have had dreams where I was smoking and I have awoken angry and disgusted with myself thinking that I must have broke down and smoked the night before only to realize after a minute or two that it was just a dream.  Anyone else have this happen to them?  What were your dreams like during the beginning of the quit?
    Yes, I had them in the beginning of my quit.  It amazed me how realistic they were.  I am now over a year quit and I do not have them anymore.  I don't quite remember when they disappeared.
    Oh not weird at all!    Read the dreams of other quiters here:   
YES - I am only a week into my quit and I have 3 smoking dreams - not always me smoking, but trying to get to the store to buy some. All over the place and I have woken up believing I have smoked. UGH
    Addiction is a part of us now, that is just the reality and it takes some time to free our consciousness and sub-consciousness.     From our friend, Joel SpitzerDreams of Smoking       
    Most of us have had those dreams old man coffee, what you're experiencing is completely normal and will eventually go away 
When I quit in 1997 I had the occasional smoking dream and felt really disappointed with myself during the dream and a great sense of relief when I woke up.    I haven't had any with this quit although it's worth remembering that we all dream every night but we have to wake up during them to remember. So, we may dream about them every night but just don't realise it.   If I do have any more dreams about them that I remember, I'm going to take it as a warning that I may be thinking about them subconsciously during the day. My first quit all those years ago served to remind me not to be complacent at any time. I don't think I realised back then that an addiction is for life, it just gets pushed further and further back in our minds as time passes.
    I was one of the few that didn't have those dreams ...  I can just imagine the joy ,when you realise it was a dream and not reality ... It will pass ...
I had one at about the 10 month mark...but in the early quit days I had some truely crazy dreams.....just not smoking ones but often about people here....and really odd.
I just wanted to post after the day I had yesterday. I woke up after having the worst sleep with dreams/nightmares. And honestly the day just went down from there. I pretty much cried over anything yesterday. On my way to work, at work in my office, on the way home, I lost all of my emotions at my daughter's school in the principals office (he must think I am a nut case) and then cried when my husband got home and I told him about my day. I don't know if it was related to my quit (day 3) but holy cow was I mess yesterday.  Has anyone else experienced this during the first few days of their quit or is it not related and I am just losing my mind? I already feel better today, woke up and of course I want a smoke, but I come on here now and read with my morning coffee instead of smoking. I hope it was just an off day yesterday, but seriously I was an emotional mess yesterday and I have not experienced emotions like that in a very long time. But I also have to say I am so PROUD of myself, the thoughts of stopping to get a pack were strong during my crying and sadness, but I did not give in to them - or (and this is amazes me) give them much attention. I want this quit - I am tired of all the effort I put into getting time to smoke in a day.
    Yes Heather!.  You are still in hell week.  The first week you can expect your emotions to be all over the place.  Just know it gets better each day.   Be proud of yourself.  Stay strong.  
Awww So sorry to hear about your day.  But look, its a new day and you haven't smoke!!!!! Keep going my friend!! You can do it!!!Edited October 31 by QueenB
    I told my husband I would not be making any major decisions for a while either.  I was in such a fog!! couldn't remember stuff!!  Yep they call it HELL WEEK for a reason!!
You are not going crazy, you are going through a purge of nicotine and cigarettes.  Be kind to yourself, reward yourself for craves and triggers conquered and remember to Breathe !    Focused breathing will help you through the most gnarly of times.       Many people are highly emotional while quitting,  you needn't fear this, it doesn't last long   and you can learn to change your mood to a kinder place.  Changing your focus is important.     Find something beautiful to look at or listen to or remember and indulge yourself in beauty.    This will give you a shot of endorphins...even faking a smile will do this and then the smile becomes real.     On a deeper level, smoking hid many issues, instead of honestly dealing with these we often just went for a smoke in our avoidance. These may surface and with your new freedom, your new trust in yourself, and with your new self awareness   you will have the tools to examine and deal with anything that pops up.         Here is a video from our friend, Joel Spitzer,  and there are many links The Importance of The First Three Days Of Your Quit that may be helpful for you.       You quit smoking !      and will never have to go through this again !  Hold tight to NOPE...Not One Puff Ever and you will succeed.     Edited October 31 by Sazerac
Definitely not going crazy ....what your experiencing is normal ....    Your body has been fed poisons for years ...it has to adjust ,which it will in time ...every day is a step nearer . My sleeping pattern was all over the place ..coming here 24 hrs a day some days .   I also had a punching pillow .I beat the crap out of it ... We say take it one day at a time...because every day is different...    Our brains are out worst enemies sometimes ...  Come here to scream and vent ....most of us have been there ...
No, you're not crazy and yes, almost all of us went through some variations of the same, and yes, yes, it is temporary, and saner days are on the horizon.  You are the middle of some of the very hardest days where everything is new, but it's a great sign that you are still able to be proud of your tremendous accomplishment.  Irritability was unfortunately my specialty, so you are probably easier to be around than some.  How exciting that day 3 is behind you and most of the nicotine is out of your system, which means you are officially on the the road to healing now.  Come here to yell, vent, cry, laugh, or whatever it takes to keep moving forward, and remember that while things will begin to improve soon, this is not always a linear process so you just have to ride out the twists and turns along the way.
            Thank you so much everyone for your support - I am happy to know I am not alone in the CRAZY town I experienced yesterday.      I think this quote from Sazerac is part of my journey - as soon as I read it - it hit home      On a deeper level, smoking hid many issues, instead of honestly dealing with these we often just went for a smoke in our avoidance. These may surface and with your new freedom, your new trust in yourself, and with your new self awareness   you will have the tools to examine and deal with anything that pops up.         I think I smoked a lot to avoid things at work and at home. I hope I do not have too many of these crying days though or my work is going to think I am going nuts.      
    I am just nodding my head through all the posts. It will get better! And, I won't lie, it will feel like it's getting worse at times (it doesn't, but addiction will tell you it is)    Soak up all the cheers, words and tips here and you will feel stronger and not so alone.    I am just ahead of ya, in a few weeks you will be on my spot, and if I can do it you can too!!! Stick to the forum, stay in the now!! You are doing an awesome job!
    Hi Heather, I'm glad you're past your bad day. Like Jordan, I was more irritated at everything than sad. Does your work know you quit? Sometimes it helps to tell the people you're always around that you've quit so they'll cut you some slack.   I'm glad you came and posted about it. Writing it down helps get it off your chest. And you help others who are going through the same thing along the way 
    It might not feel that way but you are doing great, Heather.   You are going through hell week and it can live up to its name.  A lot of your feelings are normal.      Keep fighting through this as things do get better.  Stay smoke free and you will not have to go through these rough first few days again.      Keep up the great work.
    A little bit of crazy in pursuit of a worthy goal is not a problem.     Cry if you must.  Rave if you like.  Just keep moving forward towards freedom.
    Thanks everyone - I am nervous for the weekend - more free time and I definitely smoked more on the weekends - But I know I can do it one hour one day at at time    
39 minutes ago, HeatherDianne said:             I am nervous for the weekend - more free time and I definitely smoked more on the weekends          This is where it gets tough.  My suggestion is to try and fill the free time doing new things that you don't normally do.  This will help you avoid triggers and keep your mind occupied.  Also, if the weather is nice, do an extended walk or run.  This will give you a sense of accomplishment, show you how much more you can do physically without smoking, and help slow the inevitable weight gain (I'm up 2-3 pounds over the last three weeks, but i think it would be more without doing some exercise).  Edited November 1 by Old Man Coffee
    The early weekends were tough for me too because of the extra free time.  As old man coffee just said, try to fill your new free time by trying new things.  Also, spending time here can also help kill time and keep your mind off the smokes.     @HeatherDianne and @Old Man Coffee you are both doing great!
51 minutes ago, HeatherDianne said:             Thanks everyone - I am nervous for the weekend - more free time and I definitely smoked more on the weekends - But I know I can do it one hour one day at at time                                   Hello, HeatherDianne,   I have every confidence that you will make it through the weekend.  Prepare yourself with rewards for every crave/trigger conquered and remember to Breathe !   Our friend, Joel, has a great materials onFirst Weekend Issues After Quitting Smoking
    The firsts of everything are the hardest but once you get this first one under your belt they get easier and easier. We'll be here if you need us so be sure to post if you're feeling you may cave to a crave and we'll try to help you past it. You got this 
    Yes I am trying to get a pretty busy schedule going. Made a list of things I can do in the house, clean closets etc, baking whatever to keep busy - or if I need it I will pop some popcorn and watch a good movie or two. I want this quit more than I want a smoke and that is what I repeat to myself. I had to get gas today and I said to my son I am getting it right now with you here, I can pay at the pump and I do not need to go inside like I used to to buy my two packs. My son told I can eat his halloween candy if I need it... Well I made a dent today.. Not great for weight gain - But I did not smoke!
    You're doing great Heather, and kudos to your son, he wants this for you just as bad 
    Being prepared is a great start for the weekend- and you are!  The first few weekends were really tough for me.   I’m glad you have recognized the possible challenges you may face & have a plan to thwart the demons that often accompany nicotine withdrawal.  Projects are good - so is rest.   Anything but smoking! You got this...
    You are doing great Heather!! You will make it through the weekend - we believe in you!
    How was your weekend @HeatherDianne? Hope you are doing well!
Thanks for checking in! Honestly it was hell - and I am happy to go back to work just to have a better day. - BUT I DID NOT SMOKE. I am not a joy to be around right now but today is 1 week in a couple hours. I thought I would be prouder and happier, but I am more like ok I got a week  -I can do this happy or sad.
    We are gonna celebrate the hell out of it on the forum Heather!!! Reward yourself!!!
1 hour ago, HeatherDianne said:             Thanks for checking in! Honestly it was hell - and I am happy to go back to work just to have a better day. - BUT I DID NOT SMOKE. I am not a joy to be around right now but today is 1 week in a couple hours. I thought I would be prouder and happier, but I am more like ok I got a week  -I can do this happy or sad.                  Take each day as it comes, some will be easy (just like real life ! ),  Congratulations on your First Week of Freedom !@Vivianne is so right...REWARD yourself.  The Significance of Rewards
    Well done ..Hell week over ....yes...rewards ..very important.....what you have done is flippin marvellous x
    Woohoo Heather, one week is awesome! And those feelings you're having will go away in time I promise 
    Even if there is some cravings for it ,     Cigarettes are bad      A note to myself , because i have some cravings right now .
    Plus, if you smoked one, if would feel like crap; not only because you ruined your quit but also because you'd be sucking in poison.
Yes , Intentionally smoking poison is really a stupid activity .        I am leaving to middle east (to Saudi Arabia ) for a job next month , which means i have to leave my 3 year old kid and  family in India .      That sucks .        I have depression already .     I am trying hard to think positive      I am trying hard to stay happy
    Leaving your family is sad....but smoking would change anything ...you,d be sad even more ,if you have up your quit ....yes think positive ...
@Doreensfree ,      I was married since 2013 . I have been with them since then .       This is the first time i am leaving my kid and wife , my mother is there too .      So its time to find some extra strength     Thanks for the reply .
    Your quit is young, sunshine.  Please protect it from any interference. You must keep your quit separate from circumstances in your life.   Have a look at Cristóbal'sYour Quit & Your Life--The Proper Sequence
    Yes , Thanks for the reply      I should not make Cigarettes part of any of the life's circumstances .      There must be other ways to contain the frustrations .
    Perhaps 'containing' frustrations isn't the way to go.      Take a good look at your frustrations, a severely honest examination.   How can they, one at a time, be ameliorated ?       Finding new ways to deal with problems is the new challenge and also a way to resolve these issues previously hidden behind a veil of smoke.        This is the journey of our lives.
    Extra powerful hugs for you Sunshine!!  You will be stronger because you defeated another craving. Your circumstances suck big time. There is no denying..but.. this is something you can be proud off! Make your wife and your kid proud! You can do this!!
    I'm sorry you have to leave your family sunshine but as the others have said, smoking won't change that fact. Try to think of the positives of your situation instead of focusing on the negatives. You're in my thoughts, xoxo
1 hour ago, Sazerac said:               Perhaps 'containing' frustrations isn't the way to go.                                      Take a good look at your frustrations, a severely honest examination.                   How can they, one at a time, be ameliorated ?                                       Finding new ways to deal with problems is the new challenge                 and also a way to resolve these issues previously hidden behind a veil of smoke.                                        This is the journey of our lives.               Thanks for the reply Sazerac ,      Yes , i have to deal with one thing at a time .                     38 minutes ago, Vivianne said:              Extra powerful hugs for you Sunshine!!                  You will be stronger because you defeated another craving. Your circumstances suck big time. There is no denying..but.. this is something you can be proud off! Make your wife and your kid proud! You can do this!!                Thanks Vivianne ,       Exactly , i have been going through bad times for the past 3 years ever since i started doing a degree course through a distance education mode .       I never have enough time to do things i like        Before this i was a computer science student , i have my designed my own websites and all with Html, javascript , php and mysql but i could not pass a numerical methods paper , so i lost that degree .                Anyway this course ends next month I am waiting for my final semester exam dates .              20 minutes ago, jillar said:                I'm sorry you have to leave your family sunshine but as the others have said, smoking won't change that fact. Try to think of the positives of your situation instead of focusing on the negatives. You're in my thoughts, xoxo             Thanks jillar ,     Yea , The only positive thing is i can make 10 times more money i make now , lol    Maybe i can't have it all .     Have to learn to adjust with a life like that .
    I'm sorry you have to be away from your family but smoking will not help this, or any other situation.  All smoking does is make things worse.      Keep the quit.  You will be glad you did.
Thanks johnny5 ,        I am not planning to inhale poison anymore . The color of my lips and mouth are coming back to its normal color .       I do not want to ruin that .        Yup , 1 month 22 days and counting .         Edited November 4 by Sunshine59
I have just read and viewed a video on your website from "Big Tobacco"  It was mainly directed at our own Belief system which we have deep inside of us which have given us strong reasons why we chose to smoke. I can recall when all the bans came on about smoking in designated areas, where I felt utterly despised almost to a criminal status, this was one of my reasons to continue to smoke, I thought that everyone should choose what they want to do with their life, and not listen to the status quo. A bit of a rebel really. It was by accident that I came across a video during my first few months of quitting, which totally transformed my way of thinking. This was a Video by NASIA DAVOS, called:-  "How to be a happy non smoker" presented by TEDxUniversityofPiraeus. Similar to the one on your website. It made me look at my belief system for many things which I had to unravel before I could understand just why I wasn't able to sustain my quit for longer periods. This false belief system, is perhaps the most crucial to my way of thinking. I wonder if there is another video out there which delves into your belief system of  loosing weight, which is what I am now attempting, (once again) after 7plus months of quitting.
57 minutes ago, forestgreen said:               I can recall when all the bans came on about smoking in designated areas, where I felt utterly despised almost to a criminal status,                    this was one of my reasons to continue to smoke, I thought that everyone should choose what they want to do with their life, and not listen to the status quo.                  A bit of a rebel really.                I used to think exactly so, forestgreen.    I was an aggressive smoker, smoking where and when as often as possible.    I didn't hide it, I flaunted it.    In the early days of vaping nicotine before any regulation, I would supplement my dry tobacco with a vape   and  I took extra delight in getting my fix in places like Whole Foods or organic groceries. I was an idiot, yes.  I was an addict.     It was only after understanding the tenants of addiction that I was able to admit my folly.     I wasn't a rebel at all.  I was a slave to Big Tobacco  That was a stunning realization for me and helped to power my quit          57 minutes ago, forestgreen said:               I wonder if there is another video out there which delves into your belief system of  loosing weight, which is what I am now attempting, (once again) after 7plus months of quitting.               Here is a page of resources from our friend, Joel Spitzer concerning weight.Weight Related Resources        and a video
    Great post forestgreen, I was one of those smokers too until I came to terms with the addiction!
2 hours ago, forestgreen said:               It made me look at my belief system for many things which I had to unravel before I could understand just why I wasn't able to sustain my quit for longer periods. This false belief system, is perhaps the most crucial to my way of thinking.                Cognitive dissonance is as vital to addiction as the drug of choice itself.     The very moment you drop your defense of the addiction and allow yourself to accept the truth, the entire myth of the cigarette unravels immediately.       We all accepted bullshit as holy writ while still feeding our addiction.  Deluding ourselves was necessary to keep feeding the very beast that was killings us.     The truth is the arch enemy of addiction.
Thanks to all, I am glad I am not the only rebel in the pack. Pretty much a quieter (if that is possible) person to be around, I still get annoyed at some things, but I try not to hang onto the situation as much. The diet thing; I have only gained around 5 kilos and have upped my exercise, but after looking at the resources, will be planning my meals more, I know I have to do something, I had a dream recently, where I was eating everything in sight on the table, stuffing it into my mouth, I didn't like this dream at all. So meal planning and cleaning teeth after dinner might be the go. Not one Puff Ever for Breakfast Not one Puff Ever for Lunch Not one Puff ever for Dinner.
Hello all, it's been awhile since I've posted , but this place hasn't been far from my thoughts. Tomorrow at 5:46 PM will be a year quit for me. I just wanted you all to know I may not have made it through the first part of this journey with out your help. I had to go out on my own without my safety net to complete first step. For those of you just finding it...use it and learn from the people here. I found out they knew and felt every emotion I was feeling and could talk me off the edge when needed ….it may be quite a few times before it's all said and done, but come here for help, it's worth it. I don't think it is ever over, the cravings, but they will as everyone says here , get better. Everything will look up for you and when it does it will astonish you how much better you feel... not only physically but mentally about yourself. Thank you all for your help it is and was much appreciated. And you new quitters...get on and ride this train and keep the NOPE attitude.
    Love this wantsit, and I'm so happy to be able to celebrate your one year anniversary tomorrow with you  
    I am so happy for you @Wantsit !For sure, you 'gots it' now.Congratulations on your First YEAR of Freedom.   Cravings and Triggers fade and fade, fading imperceptibly after a while.I think of smoking as a concept now and as a result of volunteering here, I think about many aspects of nicotine addictionbut, out in the other world, I don't think about my smoking or not smoking.It is never a temptation or even a fleeting but, annoying thought anymore and hasn't been since the first year or so.I still pay mind to NOPE and grateful at the end of the day that I remain free.      Stay vigilant, you beautiful nicotine free creature, and continue to reward yourself.   You have built a marvelous quit.
    Welcome back Wantsit.       Congratulations on four seasons of freedom.     See you on the lido deck.
Great to hear from you, @Wantsit        Congratulations to you on the eve of 1 year of freedom.
    Great to see you ...    The Lido deck is getting ready for your party ..
    Thank you for posting - good to see a person get a year!!
    Congratulations Wansit.  I am so glad you are smoke free and doing great.  You were a big part of my quit also.  I remember sharing in your journey.  Looking forward to partying with you and celebrating your years quit!
    Congratz Wantsit! Good to read your post and your progression. It's a real good motivator for us newbies to read the updates so thank you for staying!   
We're so glad that you've decided to take your life and freedom back. The 2019 quitters call themselves the ashkickers, here's the logo if you'd like to show your camaraderie and put it in your signature.            We also have tickers to add to your signature that will show you the time, cigarettes NOT smoked and all the money you've saved by quitting. The tab is at the top of the main page and let me tell you that it was so inspirational for me to watch those numbers grow
@jillar- you just read my mind! Didn't @notsmokinjo come up with it? C'mon, 2019 quitters, get your spiffy logo into your signatures!
    Yes, @notsmokinjo did 
    Thank you my brothers and sisters my family
    So proud of you, Juan !     Please celebrate and reward yourself, you are well on your way now. Devote yourself to a lifetime of NOPE.  Freedom is delicious.
    Yoo hoo !!!Juan !!!!....    I was getting worried about you ...no need I see you have a great quit ...
    Fabulous news Juan!! Congratulations. Now, keep moving forward because things will only get better and better from here on. Stay strong and don't let down your guard. Being quit for life is your goal and you've shown you can do it       
    Well done Juan!!
    WAY TO GO JUAN !!!!!!!
    Congratulations Juan, don't forget to do something special today to celebrate this huge achievement 
    Good job Juan.      The one month mark is a big milestone.      Enjoy your newfound freedom.
    Where you been, Juan? 
    Great Job!  One's good, two's better.  Guess what I'll tell you next month?  Keep going!
Congratulations on 1 month of freedom!!!
    Awesome work, Juan!
Congrats, JuanRMartino2! Celebrate and KTQ!
    Congratulations Juan ...so proud of you !!!!     
    ONE MONTH IS AMAZING!!!! Congrats
            and dig all the links HERE      Treat yourself to a life free from nicotine.
Are your hands and feet always cold? Mine were. Until I quit smoking.   I knew smoking affected my lungs and blood pressure. I've been on blood pressure medicine since my late 30's and instead of quitting smoking I chose to have tubal ligation surgery because my Dr wouldn't prescribe birth control after 40 years old IF I WAS A SMOKER.    But I never contributed my cold feet and hands to smoking until I quit. When you lose circulation to your extremities you risk the loss of limb.  I wish I remembered just how far into my quit I was before I noticed it but at the time I was too concerned about my bleeding gums to even notice. Turned out this too was the new flow of blood due to quitting and within a month or so my gums had color back to them. Many of our members have had tens of thousands of work done to restore their teeth after quitting.  As far as my hands and feet are concerned, they've never been warmer. So why am I bringing this up three years after quitting? Because I don't want to ever forget where I came from.   So for anyone still on the fence about quitting, all you need to do is search our forum with the keyword circulation and you'll find many former smokers who had these issues too. And you'll also see how much better they got after they quit smoking.
    It's not just your lungs ,smoking effects every part of your body ...   Great post Jillar ...   My ankles were covered in black bruises...swollen and sore....they looked as if I had hit them with a baseball bat .    Walking was painful ...in bed they were sore and itchy ...but if I scratched it would hurt more ..  I had to make a choice ....Stop smoking or face amputation ....was it too late ...  I made the decision to quit .... Thankfully it wasn't too for me ...which I will be forever grateful..  I had a good outcome ...I kept my feet ....there are plenty who are not so lucky ...    I have a few battle wounds still there.....they are a great reminder ...    Never Take Another Puff...
I've said this elsewhere but this is to reiterate for any wannabee quitter that may be reading. I was quite well read on the dangers of smoking but it took a nurse to say that the circulation in my leg was worsening for me to finally take notice and quit. The problem started about four years ago whilst on holiday when my calf muscle started to ache after a few hundred yards of walking. I sort of shrugged it off for a while but I eventually went for circulation tests. I had narrowing of the artery in my right leg and it's efficiency was 80%. Did I give up smoking then? No, I didn't because I thought that being an ostrich may be the best way to deal with it.    I went yearly with the same results with the same resultant head burying approach. However, I went again on the 22/8/19 to hear that the efficiency in the leg was now 70%. The nurse gave me a talking to and more or less said that I will eventually lose my leg at that rate.   Well, that was it folks, the penny finally dropped so I quit on the 23/8/19.    That advice from the nurse was a very good motivator I must admit.
    I suffer from a condition called Raynaud's Syndrome, which impacts the blood flow to my fingers and toes. (I've actually gotten frostbite without ever leaving my house!) When I was diagnosed, my rheumatologist told me I absolutely had to quit smoking, because smoking constricts the blood flow even further and makes Raynaud's so much worse. I was in danger of losing fingers or toes! (I still am, but smoking greatly increased the risk.)      Incidentally, my rheumatologist was actually giddy when I told him I quit!
@abbynormal my mum, her sister, my 2 sisters and my cousin all have Raynaud's.... I am the only one who doesn't have it. Can I just say when its 42C and they are walking around with hands like ice I don't mind if they touch me.
Here is a powerful video and text with pictures from Joel Spitzer,   Heart and Circulatory Diseases          Edited October 22 by Sazerac
@notsmokinjo you are so lucky you don't have it. It's a real pain.As soon as the temp dips below 75 F my fingers and toes start losing circulation. I've had to take out stock in extra warm wool socks and lined boots.
    My lot have it as CREST syndrome but only my Aunty and one of my sisters have all the crest conditions. My other sister, mum and cousin both have Reynaud's and Scerladerma. I did luck out big time by missing that little genetic gift. I keep my eyes on my daughter but considering she 'runs hot' hopefully she has missed out on this too. Its awful and I know they all suffer. We joke they have shares in ugg boots. Do you get the chilblains too? My pore aunty got one on her nose this winter.      
@notsmokinjo I have CREST/systemic scleroderma. I'm so sorry to hear it runs in your family. It's not a disease I would wish on anyone. Not even my worst enemy. I do get chillblains, as well. I got a particularly nasty one on my toe last year. I was afraid I'd lose the toe. I have to be so careful with my hands and feet. It's ridiculous!
    Wow, I am on vacation in Frankfurt and compared to the Netherlands it's smoke country. They sell it everywhere and have ads everywhere you look. It's insane really. There are two cig machines in the hotel lobby.. and yeah it's even harder to stay persistant and to not let go of the rope.    Really happy I have such an understanding and trustworthy partner. He is my rock.. and he doesn't mind me talking through the cravings alot more now than it was at home.   Talking about unsafe zones.. Germany is one...      But! I keep on hanging in there! I will!!!! Nope!!!
    Getting past this will be a HUGE victory for you Vivianne, I know you got this. We're here if you need us and give that boyfriend of yours a big hug from all of us, he's a keeper!
I agree with jillar.  That boyfriend is definitely a keeper.  Concentrate on romancing him instead of smoking.      You are doing so great Vivianne.  Stay strong.  Your cravings will pass!Edited October 26 by Linda Thomas
1 hour ago, jillar said:                Getting past this will be a HUGE victory for you Vivianne, I know you got this.                 20 minutes ago, Linda Thomas said:              Concentrate on romancing him instead of smoking.                    You are doing so great Vivianne.  Stay strong.  Your cravings will pass!                    You quit smoking, @Vivianne !    The world is full of smokers and smokes.Neither of which has any power over you anymore.You quit smoking.  YOU have all the power.Go have some fun !
     
    You got this. We are all here rooting for you. And you'll be so proud of yourself when you make it through this smoke free. Look at all those smokers around you with pity. They are still chained to their addiction. You are free!
    Well done ,for coming here and with that ....we give you a massive pat on the back ...  We are all so proud of you ..I agree look at the poor smokers with pity ....they would love to be where you are .   Your partner sounds like one of the good guys ....  Enjoy your vacation ,and your wonderful freedom ...❤
Some quitters may have trouble with the never/ever part of  NOPE (Not One Puff Ever).    To tell you the truth,  in the nascence of my quit, I  bluffed my way through never/ever land. I remember Cristobal and Stuart qualifying never/ever with the caveat,  'just for today'    and that was the truth too, it is just about here and now.   As days and weeks passed,  I absorbed the truth about addiction.   Once I clearly understood addiction is forever  and the brain's neuro pathways immediately re-connect  to addiction after one puff, I embraced never/ever/forever.   If addiction was in my brain for the long haul, well dammit...I was too    and I was going to Win !         Edited August 31, 2018 by Sazerac
Nice post!!!! For me NOPE is my Moto now, but in those early stages. I would wake up and tell myself "I will not smoke today, tomorrow will take care of it's self" If it was a good day great! Tick it of on the calendar as another day done!If it was a bad day, take it hour by hour. There are lots of things you can do NOT to smoke, distract yourself and keep busy all day. At the end of that day treat yourself to something. It doesn't have to be big, something just to make you smile. By doing this technique day after day, week after week and more, you will win this.
NOPE...Smoking is not on the table...ever..this is what I lived by..I followed these rules one day at a time...I understood this..
First thin in the morning Not One Puff Ever...Just for today. Repeat. Works.
NOPE...Smoking is not on the table.... The decision to remove smoking as an option, just take it off the table, was a major key to my success quitting. Gets back to the whole simplicity of quitting concept yet again.  You don't have to do anything, you simply don't smoke.  That's it.
I don't dare take a puff. Just this once would become just this once in awhile would become just for a little while would become me "huffin' the hookah." Nope.
Thumbs up  NOPE.   
You know, I am a commitment-phobe.  I like living spontaneously but, after I learned and accepted, 'addiction is FOREVER'   my quit solidified and I committed to not one puff Ever, Never, Forever.        Now, the concept of commitment deserves my attention and  further investigation.    I am not afraid of it out of hand anymore because it helped me stay Nicotine FREE.  This is another benefit of quitting for me.Edited April 10, 2018 by Sazerac
On 7/24/2016 at 7:02 AM, Sazerac said:  Some quitters may have trouble with the never/ever part of  NOPE (Not One Puff Ever).                   To tell you the truth,  in the nascence of my quit, I  bluffed my way through never/ever land.          I remember Cristobal and Stuart qualifying never/ever with the caveat,  'just for today'            and that was the truth too, it is just about here and now.                  As days and weeks passed,  I absorbed the truth about addiction.            Once I clearly understood addiction is forever          and the brain's neuro pathways immediately re-connect  to addiction after one puff,         I embraced never/ever/forever.                  If addiction was in my brain for the long haul, well dammit...I was too         and I was going to Win !
    Thanks for the repost ... Love your work.
    This is a nice post.        It rolls off the tongue, never, ever, forever. 
    I also had trouble with the "ever" in NOPE when i first quit, it was 'just for today'. Each morning I pledged NOPE on the board and stuck with it for the day and then got up the next morning and did it again. Eventually i also came around to understanding addiction, and how my addiction had distorted my thinking, and committed to the forever part of ever. 
On 7/24/2016 at 7:02 AM, Sazerac said:  Some quitters may have trouble with the never/ever part of  NOPE (Not One Puff Ever).                   To tell you the truth,  in the nascence of my quit, I  bluffed my way through never/ever land.          I remember Cristobal and Stuart qualifying never/ever with the caveat,  'just for today'            and that was the truth too, it is just about here and now.                  As days and weeks passed,  I absorbed the truth about addiction.            Once I clearly understood addiction is forever          and the brain's neuro pathways immediately re-connect  to addiction after one puff,         I embraced never/ever/forever.                  If addiction was in my brain for the long haul, well dammit...I was too         and I was going to Win !                                                Bump for newbies who may have trouble with the 'forever/ever' part of NOPE. NOPE one crave at a time, one day at a time.  You will succeed.
    NOPE is all you need
    That Never Ever stays foremost in my mind.  Getting rid of the nicotine out of my body has not been an easy journey.  I've been at it for almost two months now and am not quite sure if it is completely gone.  I still have some pretty crappy feeling days.  The thought of going back repulses me.  I so want that freedom and the joy that comes along with it.  
    There is going to be curves in the track...quitting is a journey... Your still early in your journey Linda...   Already though ..you know there is no going backwards...the way is forward.....the curves will get fewer and more smootfher...  Upwards and onwards..
32 minutes ago, Linda Thomas said:              That Never Ever stays foremost in my mind.  Getting rid of the nicotine out of my body has not been an easy journey.  I've been at it for almost two months now and am not quite sure if it is completely gone.  I still have some pretty crappy feeling days.  The thought of going back repulses me.  I so want that freedom and the joy that comes along with it.                There is a lot of misinformation about when your body is completely clear from nicotine.    It is more than a few days for your body to get rid of nicotine, a lot depends on how long/how much you smoked.     Tar isn't expelled from the lungs quickly....it is tar for heaven's sake...you need gasoline to get it off your feet !      The good news is that, in time, it will leave your body completely and quit harassing the receptors in your brain.      Please cut yourself some slack.     Your body is working overtime purging out the nicotine and creating new, clean synapses in your brain.  All this is serious healing that you cannot see, that is part of the magic.     You can see and appreciate how far you have come in a short time.   You can see how you have changed your patterns, how you have taken full control of your life !      You ARE free, part of you just hasn't caught up with the rest.          I know you are tired of hearing us say, ' be patient, things will start to get a whole lot better'  but, you have to trust us.  We don't lie.
1 hour ago, Sazerac said:               but, you have to trust us.  We don't lie.           I have so much faith in my quit warriors.  I feel very blessed to have stumbled upon this forum.  You have cheered me on, lifted me up and gotten me to a place I never thought I could be. I so want to reward you for your kindness and I know that reward is my quit.
2 hours ago, Linda Thomas said:             I﻿ still﻿ ha﻿ve some ﻿pre﻿tty crappy feeling days. ﻿    Hey, never smokers have crappy days too! It's life! We love your quit ((Linda Thomas)) and we're so glad you're here!!
Ok... I had huge issues with NOPE when I first joined a quit forum... I wanted to NOPE... all the cool kids NOPEd.... but Not One Puff Ever... the Ever... I didn't have faith in myself to publicly pledge EVER.... because what if I couldn't.... what then.... I had just lied to everyone.... so for over 2 weeks maybe 3 I'd go into the NOPE thread and like the nopes.... that was it... just like them because if someone was noping I wanted to let them know it had been seen.... and then someone said in their nope.... NOPE just for today.... and still it took a while for me to get it.... but once I did that first little NOPE.... it was like building a brick wall between me and smoking... NOPE.... one little acronym, declared infront of everyone began that change in my thinking from oh wow I went another day... to I am going to do this... this it Jo.... so you will notice around the boards I post pictures of myself as a kangroo... its not just cos I'm an Aussie.... its because there are two interesting facts about Kangaroos... 1 they can't fart and 2... they can't move backwards, sideways sure but backwards it is physically impossible for them to hop backwards... same as the emu they can't walk backwards either... that's why they are on the Aussie coat of arms... forever going forward.... so everyone, embrace your inner roo (or emu, and its pronounced Eam-you ...eam as is ream... an emu would be a good choice, they are great in a battle, they even beat the Aussie army in the great Western Australian emu war)...and only move forward.... Be the roo!
8 minutes ago, notsmokinjo said:                1 they can't fart           The education I am getting on this forum is downright amazing!!!!
On 9/30/2018 at 10:03 AM, c9jane29 said:                Hey, never smokers have crappy days too! It's life!                                 The worst days of a never smoker and former smoker, are always better than the best days of a current smoker.           Never smokers and former smokers normally and in general, live each day of their their lives in the bright light of a high probability for a good, free, and healthy life.      Current smokers *ALWAYS*  live each day of their lives in the dark shadows with a constant threat of awful smoking-related diseases, mental/physical/spiritual slavery, and a high probability of early, horrible death.                Cristóbal
1 hour ago, Cristóbal said:             The worst days of a never smoker and former smoker, are always better than the best days of a current smoker.                                                           Never smokers and former smokers normally and in general, live each day of their their lives in the bright light of a high probability for a good, free, and healthy life.                                      Current smokers *ALWAYS*  live each day of their lives in the dark shadows with a constant threat of awful smoking-related diseases, mental/physical/spiritual slavery, and a high probability of early, horrible death.            I love this.  I have typed it and put it on my refrigerator as a daily reminder!
On 7/24/2016 at 8:02 AM, Sazerac said:  Some quitters may have trouble with the never/ever part of  NOPE (Not One Puff Ever).                   To tell you the truth,  in the nascence of my quit, I  bluffed my way through never/ever land.          I remember Cristobal and Stuart qualifying never/ever with the caveat,  'just for today'            and that was the truth too, it is just about here and now.                  As days and weeks passed,  I absorbed the truth about addiction.            Once I clearly understood addiction is forever          and the brain's neuro pathways immediately re-connect  to addiction after one puff,         I embraced never/ever/forever.                  If addiction was in my brain for the long haul, well dammit...I was too         and I was going to Win !                                            That mantra- One Day At a Time- is how I stayed quit.  I’d wake up, pledge my daily “Yep to NOPE” on the NOPE  thread (at QSMB) and go about my day.   Waves of craves crashed upon me throughout the day.   I didn’t sink.  I’d go to bed smiling and elated. Another nonsmoking day in the books.  Wake up , do it again. Over & over until one day the waves stop crashing.    They hit every so often. Months of tranquility separate them.         Spot on post @Sazerac
On 7/24/2016 at 7:02 AM, Sazerac said:  Some quitters may have trouble with the never/ever part of  NOPE (Not One Puff Ever).                   To tell you the truth,  in the nascence of my quit, I  bluffed my way through never/ever land.          I remember Cristobal and Stuart qualifying never/ever with the caveat,  'just for today'            and that was the truth too, it is just about here and now.                  As days and weeks passed,  I absorbed the truth about addiction.            Once I clearly understood addiction is forever          and the brain's neuro pathways immediately re-connect  to addiction after one puff,         I embraced never/ever/forever.                  If addiction was in my brain for the long haul, well dammit...I was too         and I was going to Win !                                            bump
Here are our friend, Joel Spitzer's videos about this.           Edited September 22 by Sazerac
    Bump 
On 9/30/2018 at 5:21 PM, Sazerac said:              you have to trust us.  We don't lie.            This part shook me to my core just now...       Thank you Saz!!!Edited October 26 by Vivianne
    Got rear ended in traffic today.  Quite an impact.  Got checked out at the local hospital and stepped outside to take a bit of fresh air and appreciate my continued existence.     Smokers were outside smoking and it would have been no effort to ask for one.  Just to calm the nerves that were all a jingle.      I talked myself out of it.  Celebrating my fortune by poisoning myself seemed like spitting in lady luck's eye.     So yeah, we still get close calls and fender bender after we quit smoking.          Such are the vagaries of chance that are outside my control.        What's not chance is the decision not to smoke.         This is something I can control.        *NOPE*           
4 minutes ago, Sirius said:             So yeah, we still get close calls and fender bender after we quit smoking.                                          Such are the vagaries of chance that are outside my control.                                        What's not chance is the decision not to smoke.                                         This is something I can control.                                        *NOPE*                  This is important,  an important choice, Sirius.    Glad you aren't seriously injured   or seriously injuring yourself by smoking.      NOPE
    So glad you weren't badly injured Sirius. And thank you for reminding everyone that bad things happen and we get through them smoke free just like never smokers do 
    You made a great life choice Sirius!     
    So glad you weren't seriously hurt! I would have been triggered by that. Car accidents (or any car trouble in general) trigger my anxiety so badly. Your post is an excellent reminder that we are in control of our choice whether or not to smoke, even during triggering events like these!
292,000 miles (470,000 Km) and I think my poor Honda Fit '07 is going to be "totaled" by the insurer.
45 minutes ago, Sirius said:                292,000 miles (470,000 Km) and I think my poor Honda Fit '07 is going to be "totaled" by the insurer.                                               Insurance totaled mine back in March. 2007 Acadia with 22,000 miles on it. I was sick about it, it still smelled like new car. Insurance didn't give me anywhere near enough to replace it. I'm just glad the girl who t boned it had insurance!
    Glad you ok .S !!!! Very happy you kept your fabulous quit ...smoking wouldn't have changed anything ...only made it  worse ..
So you've relapsed again for the umpteenth time. You come to the board admitting your failure and get a mixture of responses. Some positive and it makes you get right back to your quit. Some negative and you're afraid to post or start again because you'll only fail and upset people. But the truth is, who cares what we think? It's your life, your quit. You decide when you're ready to quit. We offer the support, along with a huge library of education. We also offer a ton of socializing topics to help distract you and keep your mind off smoking.    Please remember that we have lots of "chronic" relapsers who finally found their forever quit and so can you. Never Give up giving up. Edited August 21 by jillar
    I feel so excited when someone new posts that they want to quit.  A chance to help someone else change their life.      Of course I feel a huge disappointment when you relapse.  Only because I know that, if you can just hang tough, you can succeed too.    Never give up quitting and don't quit posting. 
21 minutes ago, Linda Thomas said:              I feel so excited when someone new posts that they want to quit.  A chance to help someone else change their life.                      Of course I feel a huge disappointment when you relapse.  Only because I know that, if you can just hang tough, you can succeed too.                    Never give up quitting and don't quit posting.          Yes! Living this for 2.5 years now. Many others longer. Excitement & disappointment at every turn. You never know what will happen but there's no better feeling then when you absolutely know someone has made it !
So far so good here. I’m hanging  tough . I don’t think I could have done it if I hadn’t found this site. So much info and so many cheerleaders here! And I know it’s going to get better each day. If you are  struggling  With your quit or just struggling to set your quit date, this is a great place to be. Read read read. There are so many wonderful quit stories on here. Not all of them  smooth sailing that’s for sure. Some relapsed and got right back onto a new quit. So I say chaos to you jillar for starting this thread. It’s an important one. So many may just stop by here are see this and not pick up that cancer stick! Edited August 6 by Diane R
Sure, your support system here feels joyful euphoria in success and sad frustration in failure but, it is not about us .    like Jillar says,       13 hours ago, jillar said:              But the truth is, who cares what we think?              We want to encourage and support, provide education and some distraction and fun as well.   Some of us have Tough Love, some the Warm and Fuzzy Love.   I think Jillar also said that 'it takes a village to help a quitter'.   So right !  So, take what you need and leave the rest.  One or many of our voices will resonate with you and the educational materials are exceptional.     Know that everyone has the ability to quit, wrap your mind around that.  Don't be a doubter.    Commit to NOPE and there you have it !
    So right ....the important thing ,is saving your life ...from this horrible addiction...    Yes ok ...i have  a frying pan ...but I've yet to use it ....   This board has saved  countless of lives....what's more important than yours....    Just jump back on..your seats still here...
Jillar -    Thank you. Thank you.       When I blew my 1.5 year quit, I got the mixture of reactions you mentioned. Some came across kind of rude, some were polite. There was one person here in particular who was not judging but "professional" with feedback. It was the last person on here I expected to be so (insert whatever positive verb.)  I have more respect for this person now than I could have imagined. One of the true leaders around here.    As someone told me, when you take a fall, it is interesting to see who steps up and who kicks you when you are down.        So for Jillar in particular, I think we may have disagreed at times (probably cause I tend to be smart ass). If so, I would now like to bury the hatchet.
3 hours ago, JB 883 said:               Jillar -                    Thank you. Thank you.                                       When I blew my 1.5 year quit, I got the mixture of reactions you mentioned. Some came across kind of rude, some were polite. There was one person here in particular who was not judging but "professional" with feedback. It was the last person on here I expected to be so (insert whatever positive verb.)                  I have more respect for this person now than I could have imagined. One of the true leaders around here.                                        As someone told me, when you take a fall, it is interesting to see who steps up and who kicks you when you are down.                            Jillar is an incredible member,  no doubt.  I am incredibly grateful to her for her presence here, all of us are,  for sure.    I am glad she was helpful to you, glad you 'heard' her.     Many other people were trying to be helpful and I don't understand your statement, "interesting to see who steps up and who kicks you when you are down".   After reading your relapse thread, nobody kicked you when you were down. Nobody.    Have a look at it yourself, So Now What.  I see two pages of support, what did you see ?        How is your quit going ?  What was different for you in this quit ?  Was it easier ?  harder ?  What steps are you taking to prevent another relapse ?  All of us can learn from your experience.
Totally agree.  We have to get up and try again and it might be the one.  My own path is a string of failures with just the 1 success at the end.       And also, Jill, you're awesome.
Glad to see you back to quitting  @JB 883, and burying the hatchet is a great plan Edited August 9 by jillar
8 hours ago, Sazerac said:              How is your quit going ?  What was different for you in this quit ?  Was it easier ?  harder ?                  What steps are you taking to prevent another relapse ? All of us can learn from your experience.                                                        In short - I will see how this one goes.    So far it has been harder cause I was smoking real cigarettes instead of those "roll your own" using pipe tobacco. Yeah that stuff is weak. Quitting it was not hard.   Steps to not relapse - Just don't buy cigarettes. My room mate doesn't use it so there is none.     HERE is what caused my hard relapse -       Oct 2017 was the start of the 1.5 year quit. In April I smoked like 6 cigs, but just wasn't into it and quit. Then toward the end of May, some kleptomaniac decided to rip me off. Maybe my fault but it kind of set me back at a bad time. I was pissed and had all kinds of negative emotions, more than I had experienced in years. About the first week of June I decided "Oh screw it" and bought a pack, thinking, "It doesn't matter anyways".   Well earlier this week, I woke up and could hear my own breath. Smoker's cough was coming back. I had spent $160 in two months on my habit. I thought, "This just needs to stop."   So far, I have been playing referee to several imaginary fights going on in my head.        Now either you or Jillar has a thread, "what have you learned..." I need to put something important in there, lemme find it.
6 hours ago, jillar said:               Glad to see you back to quitting  @JB 883, and burying the hatchet is a great plan      I'm glad you are back to quitting, also, @JB 883 ,thanks for clarification and your story is appreciated.       Here is What Has Quitting Smoking Taught You
23 hours ago, JB 883 said:              Jillar -                    Thank you. Thank you.                                       When I blew my 1.5 year quit, I got the mixture of reactions you mentioned. Some came across kind of rude, some were polite. There was one person here in particular who was not judging but "professional" with feedback. It was the last person on here I expected to be so (insert whatever positive verb.)                  I have more respect for this person now than I could have imagined. One of the true leaders around here.                    As someone told me, when you take a fall, it is interesting to see who steps up and who kicks you when you are down.                                        So for Jillar in particular, I think we may have disagreed at times (probably cause I tend to be smart ass). If so, I would now like to bury the hatchet.           JB ...how strange a post this is ...for someone coming back to the forum asking for help again, to help you Quit .  I too have read through all the replies you received when you gave up your quit ..  What I see is a board full of people who supported you in quitting again ...you say rude ...I say honest posts .    How boring this place would be ,if everyone said the same thing ...I think you should go read them again ,this time with a open mind .. Yes our jillar is one great peep...but it seems you had your difference,s in the past ,and I'm happy to hear the hatchet has been buried... I hoping you have come back here in earnest to have support ,to help you Quit again ... Not to slate the members who do thier best to support all quitters ...
I am feeling some bits of despair in the ether from people who have recently been here and relapsed.        I don't blame them for feeling low down.    Addiction is serious business.  So serious that it takes your full attention and focused intention to have a successful quit.       I can only recommend learning as much as you can about addiction.   Read the materials here and from other places.  Read until your eyes bleed. Even if you think you know all about it, you must imprint this information on your brain with indelible ink.        Get right with yourself,  make the commitment to NOPE   and stand by your commitment.   Do not waver.  Hold yourself accountable.   We are talking about saving your life, the quality of your life and the quality of your family's life.      Stay in touch with this community.  Post often, tell us how you are feeling and post support for others.    The more invested you are in your quit, the greater chances of your success.        I hope y'all come back with a renewed passion to quit. Everyday is a good day to quit smoking and the sooner the better.                     Edited August 13 by Sazerac
    The course of the war is always decided by the last battle.  Never give in and never give up.
    Listen up !!!!..... Smoking kills ...not a nice peaceful way ...it is a very slow painful death ...robbing you of your dignity..    If you don't worry about yourself ...what about your partner. Your family ..they have to watch you slowly losing all your capabilities....they will become your nurse ,your carer...    It just doesn't effect you ,it's a family affair ...    Fight to free yourself ...never give up...never ....     
6 hours ago, Sazerac said:              I can only recommend learning as much as you can about addiction.                   Read the materials here and from other places.  Read until your eyes bleed.                 Even if you think you know all about it, you must imprint this information on your brain with indelible ink.                                        Get right with yourself,  make the commitment to NOPE   and stand by your commitment.                   Do not waver.  Hold yourself accountable.                   We are talking about saving your life, the quality of your life and the quality of your family's life.                                      Stay in touch with this community.                  Post often, tell us how you are feeling and post support for others.                    The more invested you are in your quit, the greater chances of your success.                                        I hope y'all come back with a renewed passion to quit. Everyday is a good day to quit smoking and the sooner the better.                                    THIS!!!!! All the would have/could have and denial of the addiction that I was in - quitting only to relapse only to quit and relapse over and over was MADDENING!!! THERE IS NOTHING AND I MEAN NOTHING GOOD ABOUT SMOKING PERIOD. But you know this already...…...we all did and do.      I blamed all my relapses on anyone and anything I could - but in all honesty I was weak!! I was an addict who thought like a junkie and now I am fighting for my very life due to that very denial. You have to stop the fight with your mind and commit yourself to the battle. There is no in between. It's not easy but nothing in life is. It's in these moments that you will find your greatest resolve and all the will power and strength you can muster to continue forward and commit to NOPE!        You can make each day easier or each day harder - the choice is always yours. DO NOT make the same mistakes I did and sit in denial thinking it will NEVER happen to you and that just one more puff will be okay. I promise you it is NOT WORTH IT. And I have to echo Sazerac in that:  Everyday is a good day to quit smoking and the sooner the better! I truly wish you the best of luck!!!
7 hours ago, Doreensfree said:              Listen up !!!!.....                 Smoking kills ...not a nice peaceful way ...it is a very slow painful death ...robbing you of your dignity..                    If you don't worry about yourself ...what about your partner. Your family ..they have to watch you slowly losing all your capabilities....they will become your nurse ,your carer...                    It just doesn't effect you ,it's a family affair ...                    Fight to free yourself ...never give up...never ....                                    So, so true, Doreen! I just experienced this with a dear friend who just passed from lung cancer due to smoking...it was 8 months of exactly what you described...very sad, anguished days  for her husband and family at the end. Nothing peaceful about any of what she went through and I witnessed much of it first-hand.       Note: My friend was informed that any treatment (chemo and/or radiation) would only give her an extra 3 months (along with suffering the side effects of those treatments). Her prognosis was several weeks to 6 months w/o treatment. She elected to forgo treatment...Edited August 14 by Rozukiclarification about prognosis
    I'm sorry about the loss of your friend @Rozuki, xoxo...
4 minutes ago, jillar said:             I'm sorry about the loss of your friend @Rozuki, xoxo...                Thank you, Jillar!
    It's important to tell these truths about smoking in the hopes it helps just one person quit for good. I lost both my dad and his younger brother (my uncle) to smoking related cancer and still continued to smoke until my health started suffering because of it.    PLEASE don't be stupid like me, quit while you can still take nice deep breaths.... You may get a little tough love now and then if you relapse but it only means that we care. We will never give up on you and will be cheering you on at every milestone. Also remember to take what you need and leave the rest. You may not always agree with everyone, especially early in your quit,  but personally for me I found that the people who bugged me the most in my early days were the people I ended up becoming great friends with. So keep an open mind and an open heart....... 
So, so true, Doreen! I just experienced this with a dear friend who just passed from lung cancer due to smoking...it was 8 months of exactly what you described...very sad, anguished days  for her husband and family at the end. Nothing peaceful about any of what she went through and I witnessed much of it first-hand.       Note: My friend was informed that any treatment (chemo and/or radiation) would only give her an extra 3 months (along with suffering the side effects of those treatments). Her prognosis was several weeks to 6 months w/o treatment. She elected to forgo treatment...    Edited 4 hours ago by Rozuki        I'm so sorry for your loss Sweetheart...    I lost my best friend 15 months ago ,to a cancer related to smoking ..I know your pain ...  And my life long partner of 48 years  3 months ago...   Don't leave it till it's too late ..the time to Quit is TODAY !!!
    I would add that it is not necessarily  "too late" to get any benefit out of quitting even if you are already experiencing problems or have been diagnosed with a smoking-related disease.  With most conditions, your ability to fight the disease and/or slow down or minimize the progression will be much greater the sooner you stop smoking and stop adding to the damage. 
    Every quit is different.  What may be easier for one, may not be as easy for another.  I am not here to judge anyone.  I just want to be here to support you and help you through the process.  I know you appear because you want to quit.  I get so disheartened when you struggle and leave.     I think that, even if you can share your struggle, something might click to help you find your way to success.  
I often get a little down and frustrated maintaining the Anniversary list. Where did this person go? What happened to that person? All of them were so full of commitment mere days ago or at least weeks ago. Then their Anniversary date comes around and I see they haven't logged on in days or even weeks. Not all are fresh quitters either. Some have months under their belts. Some may have just decided this forum was not for them I suppose but in my heart of hearts I suspect I know what's happened to most of them because I've been standing on that ledge myself, looking over the edge into the abyss of relapse but somehow gathered the mental strength to rip 1 more NOPE from somewhere inside me and that's all I needed until that overpowering urge faded. This addiction is one of the worst possible ones to wrestle under control for most but we all know how important it is to do just that. Although it can be a challenging and sometimes difficult process, quitting has never killed anyone that I am aware of. The alternative will at least shorten your life if not outright kill you.
I cared a lot what the people here thought (well, not here exactly, but at the last board where I "met" many of you for the first time), because I was ready to hold myself accountable but knew I didn't have it in me quite, and I needed to be held accountable.  I think when you come to a message board for support, you have to be ready to accept that support - you have to have just enough belief in yourself to trust that there was a reason you showed up in the first place, but after that, you have to let others help you out.  I needed the jabs that I got when I first arrived - asking me why I was setting a quit date so far in the future when I could quit sooner and get the hard stuff over with and not risk backing out of my commitment.  I credit whoever said that to me (which was NOT what I wanted to hear...) with saving my life.     I haven't been around in a long time, but I'm still quit.  Umm... 20 months at the end of August, I think?  I don't miss smoker-farmgirl one bit.
Those that quit before you @farmgirl knew full well that your junkie thinking would have talked you out of quitting long before your quit date arrived and yeah, as a still smoker, that's NOT what you wanted to hear but fortunately you listened and quit. Great job on 20 Months smoke free by the way! Ain't life great as a nonsmoker?
    Well said farmgirl, thank you   It's good to 'see' you 
13 hours ago, reciprocity said:             Those that quit before you @farmgirl knew full well that your junkie thinking would have talked you out of quitting long before your quit date arrived and yeah, as a still smoker, that's NOT what you wanted to hear but fortunately you listened and quit. Great job on 20 Months smoke free by the way! Ain't life great as a nonsmoker?                EXACTLY!  And when I come back and browse and read through people's posts, I cringe at the words I read when people break their quit because they echo my junkie voice, and I want to shake them awake from it and say "that's not you!  that's the chemical speaking through you!" but I know I could barely tolerate hearing that when I first came here for help.
    I'm feeling like I need to bump this. Some of our newbies have been MIA 
         
But I think my man Kutcha says it best.... It's better to have tried and failed than never try at all....but you gotta get back up again peeps..     Edited October 5 by notsmokinjo
    Bumping this for anyone who needs it, we're here and ready to support you to get you your forever quit.  I'm also really happy to see some missing members back  
    Sometimes the anxiety created by over thinking quitting seems insurmountable.   This is just the addiction speaking and not a truth.    Quitting is doable, always. It is a matter of choice.       Sure, you may have uncomfortable moments but, nothing you cannot handle, believe me.            I decided to give this 'quitting thing' a year and see how I felt.  I could always go back to smoking but, I thought, 'hey, what else am I doing with my time ?  Why not give it all I have ?'  It became a personal challenge      When I quit and started learning all I could about nicotine addiction, I quickly understood that I was quitting 'forever' and not just for a year.  It was a natural progression and one of thought and sanity, I was building a new free person.       Take the chance on yourself.  You needn't continue the slavery to nicotine.  You can earn and cherish your Freedom. I know you can.
In celebration of my Six Years of Freedom, I wrote this little piece,      Sazerac's Simple Guide To Freedom     Desire:   You must want to quit more than you want to smoke     Decision:    Make the decision to live life without Nicotine, commit to this decision and intend on standing by your resolve.   Choice:    Choose to never smoke again, EVER.  This choice will empower you in many, many ways.           “Once you make a decision, the universe conspires to make it happen.” — Ralph Waldo Emerson       Education.  Thanks to Joel Spitzer, this site and lurking around the sphere, I am still learning everything I can about Nicotine addiction.Information is Big Power and I feel sufficiently armed to maintain my quit.      Changing Focus.It took some doing but, s l o w l y, when junkie thoughts would drag me down, I began to train myself to look at something beautiful or think of beauty in some way.This retrained my brain and also gave me a bump of endorphins.   I now use this technique during any moments of distress or discomfort.These are not nicotine related anymore, just moments of life.     The concept of H.A.L.T.(are you Hungry, Angry (emotional), Lonesome (bored), Tired).Nine times out of ten, smokey thoughts weren't about nicotine at all,it was my body (poor thing) hollering at me to do something life sustaining for it.    Now, the signals are very clear and not related to nicotine in any way.     Rewards.Not only does rewarding yourself help to re-wire your brain receptors,treating yourself well and being as kind to yourself as you possibly can makes life so nice.A little spoiling goes a long way,  especially during rugged transitions of any kind.     Quitting smoking has taught me so much about myself and the human condition.The truth and honesty involved in making and keeping a commitment to myself has been profound.I know myself so much better.  I have exchanged an empty bravado for an inner trust and knowledge.    I am grateful to everybody here, your stories, your triumphs and your lapses, too.ALL have helped me understand the hideousness of nicotine addiction and the power of Choice, the preciousness of Freedom.     I am so proud to be part of this community.Y'all are beautiful nicotine free creatures, my friends.     S       
    Great post saz, thank you 
    Thank you for sharing that with us!
    My brother is one of those weird smokers in that he can do without them for periods of time - a week, a month etc. Having said that, he's been vaping for a couple of years so all smokers are addicts however many or often they smoke, as we all know.    He's been enquiring about my quit and encouraging me because he knows about the circulation problem in my leg. We were chatting on the phone about all this and he said, "Right, I'm chucking the e-cig away and joining you." If he's made up his mind he can do it and I'll keep the pressure on him.     He's not really a forum person so I doubt he will join here but I can post updates for him. Well done my brother Nigel.  
    Quitting is always a good thing whether he's a regular smoker or just occasional. Congrats Nigel on deciding to take back your life!    Glad your example was able to convince him  
    That's awesome, MB!  I'm glad you helped inspire him.       Congratulations Nigel.  Quitting smoking is a great thing to do.
    Yay Phil and congratulations Nigel! We have a pretty good section of vape articles that even if he isn't a forum guy may be worth him checking out 
    Yayyy, way to go Nigel
    High Five Nigel...  You have been his Inspiration...... He can always just read ...if he wanted too....
2 hours ago, Doreensfree said:              He can always just read ...if he wanted too....         And maybe drop drop by the chicks or sticks game occasionally?
    Way to go Nige!
14 hours ago, reciprocity said:                                 And maybe drop drop by the chicks or sticks game occasionally?          Hey !!!.....That's a sneaky way of recruiting some sticks ..
    That is awesome! Congratulations Nigel!!
    Very hard to change anyone's behavior. Good example is the best way as they need to have the "want to quit" on their own.  Good work
    Here are a few messages about this subject from our friend, Joel Spitzer,Helping Others Quit     Showing Others That There Is Life After Quitting    Are People Doomed To Fail If They Don't Get Professional Help To Quit Smoking
Hi Guys! I am currently 21 days in my quit smoking journey! I had a chest infection 3 weeks ago which scared me off cigarettes, now it’s all good and well but I still have an annoying dry cough sometimes productive producing clear phlegm. But also chest pains/aches, like around the entirety of the lungs area. Has anyone else experienced this?        Im 23, started 3 years ago only smoked like 8-10 if that a day.
    Welcome Axyz, congrats on three weeks quit, that's awesome!   When we quit the lungs start right away working hard to clear our lungs of all the gunk from smoking. Some of us cough out the phlegm and some of us, like me, don't. But the phlegm does still find a way out if you know what I mean lol. Clear phlegm is a good sign that there's no more infection.As far as your chest pain, it's probably from all the coughing but if you're really concerned about it you should definitely go see your dr.
    Welcome to Quit Train Axyz! You're doing the best thing you possibly can for yourself by quitting and with three weeks already behind you, you're well on your way - keep going.        As Jillar said, it's pretty common to cough a lot of crap up in the early stages of quitting and the pain could be muscular pain from all the coughing. Do get it checked though if you are concerned or if it persists.        Also, stick around this forum because there's lots of information about nicotine addiction and quitting and super great support from other quitters who have been through the sames thing you are now experiencing  
    The side effects of a chest infection lasts quite a while so it might be that. Just think how bad you would feel if you were still pumping smoke into your lungs every day.         No harm in getting your doctor to check you out to be on the safe side. 
Great job on the 3 weeks.  As said above it takes a little time to clear out the lungs but that is a good thing.  Also as said if anything concerns you make sure you contact a medical professional to have it checked out.  Keep strong you are doing an awesome job!!!!
    Congratulations on your quit, Axyz. See your doctor with your concerns. Here is what our friend, Joel says about some of your issues     
I am no doc but I cannot imagine 1/2 a pack a day for three years did any real damage.          On 9/23/2019 at 12:07 PM, jillar said:   When we quit the lungs start right away working hard to clear our lungs of all the gunk from smoking. Some of us cough out the phlegm and some of us, like me, don't. But the phlegm does still find a way out if you know what I mean lol.    Not trying ti put words in Jillar's mouth here, however, I think what she means is the waste products from smoking tend to sneak out the back door eventually.
    Am experiencing the cleansing cough right now. My quit so far is like me, always on schedule haha
    Did I smoke today?      It is the one and only question that matters when quitting.  I've seen some recent posts in which people call themselves "bad quitters" because they craved and/or romanced the cigarette during their quit.  There is no such thing as a "bad quitter."  There are only successful quitters and smokers.       If you craved a cigarette but didn't smoke, you are a successful quitter.  If it took you a while to rewire your brain about the realities of cigarettes but you didn't smoke, you are a successful quitter.        Smoking is an addiction.  Cigarettes are something we conditioned ourselves with for years.  Quitting is a process.     If the process was a bit more difficult for you than others.  If it took you a little while longer to turn the corner than others.  If you really, really, really wanted to smoke a cigarette.  If you were grouchy, bordering on homicidal, during parts of your quit...If any of these conditions applied and you stayed true to your commitment and did not smoke, congratulations.  Your quit is every bit as much of a successful quit as anyone else's.       To smoke or not to smoke...it is the only question that matters when quitting.
    That's right! We all face some sort of challenges when we start our quit but no matter what happens along our own individual paths, as long as we didn't smoke during those challenges, we are winners - non-smokers - quitters and, proud of it  
Thanks, Boo, for a great, thoughtful post.  I was pretty hard on myself during the first year of my quit,   'free-ing my head' was arduous at times, long and weary times.      I knew I would give it a year but, sometimes the slog made me feel crazy, a self-induced sado-masochistic crazy.    My addict's voice would wheedle, 'why are you punishing yourself ?' It took a lot of education to extricate the truth from my addled, addicted brain.       Sometimes, with the 20/20 vision of hindsight, I think that I should have/could have made it easier on myself   and maybe some of that is true  but, the point is, I built myself a rock solid quit and that is all that matters.       I don't Smoke. I won't Smoke.   NOPE-ly yours,  S
    Boo well said, thank you for posting this.  You made the process of quitting "real" and we all need to realize is that if we make it through each day no matter the challenges that we are indeed successful in are quits and that we must focus on this!!!
9 minutes ago, Sazerac said:                I knew I would give it a year but, sometimes the slog made me feel crazy, a self-induced sado-masochistic crazy.                    2 hours ago, Boo said:              If you were grouchy, bordering on homicidal, during parts of your quit.         Oh this is me right now.  Sometimes I wonder who that person is.  I can be pretty ornery some days but then I cut myself some slack.  I kind of look at that meanness as a way to turbo charge me through the crave.  At the end of the day I did not smoke and that is what counts.
    I was just thinking people are obviously grouchy, homicidal, weary, crazy, ornery whether quitting or not. Do you think the quit exaberates who we just are as people? Or are these new emotions to you guys?       I was never OTT emotional in my quit and I wasnt an OTT emotional person before my quit either. I'm a positive and confident person. And I felt more positive and more confident during my quit and thereafter.         I do now though, have a very short temper in my car and can be seen giving the Vicky out the window most days haha I think before I was too busy smoking to notices all the assholes on the road! 
You may be right Weegie!    I'm pretty grumpy and a bit of a closet A-hole normally so the added anxiety of quitting probably heightened those traits my wife married me for    I was pretty quick to get frustrated and angry for probably the first 4-5 months of my quit. It was the longest lasting symptom for me personally.Edited November 30, 2018 by reciprocity
    I'm a very laid back person....no line in the sand....  I did go angry for a short time ,at the very beginning..... I soon went back to my old self....
Others in my realm may disagree, but I am not a natural psycho. Eccentric,  maybe...unconventional, for sure...creative, happy, supportive and positive are closer to my modus operandi.        I felt psycho because all I could think about was the issue of smoking.     I wasn't going to smoke but, addiction thoughts/actions and the addict's voice in my head   took a long time and effort to clear.       The body memories took their time too   but, considering I  smoked for 40 some odd years, smoking everywhere/anywhere/all the time/doing anything/everything    one year of work wasn't too long or arduous  to attain my freedom.      In fact, I got off light. I'm pretty healthy.  I can breath.        So, my cray was directly associated with addressing my  nicotine addiction  and disappeared when I had reclaimed most of the receptors in my brain, freeing my dosage of dopamine from the association with nicotine.
2 hours ago, WeegieWoman said:              I was just thinking people are obviously grouchy, homicidal, weary, crazy, ornery whether quitting or not. Do you think the quit exaberates who we just are as people? Or are these new emotions to you guys?               I was grouchy during the early days of my quit.     Of course, to be fair, I wasn't exactly Pollyanna before I quit.        And I'm still annoyed by a lot of the stupid shit that goes on around me.       So yes, grouchy is kind of a default setting for me.  However, I'm a smokefree grouch with much more energy to piss and moan about things that annoy me now.
I think maybe the first week or so I was a bit more agro than normal... it was like I forgot how to count to 10... so my temper was on a hair trigger.... and even after the initial few weeks it was still a case of watch it when I lost it cos I would just go mental... but I know I have a tendency to that anyway... i did feel like I had less control over it.      so back to Boo's initial centiment....      waking up in the morning I promise myself: I will not smoke today.  going to bed at night I acknowledge: Today was a success, I did not smoke.
    When it all comes down to it,I'm glad I'm not an asshole
    I'm an asshole 
8 minutes ago, jillar said:             I'm an asshole  That can't be possible.  Why would your hubby call you so much.  He loves to talk to his sweetie!
    LOL!! I'm an asshole as well! But you ladies make me laugh so it's all good!
35 minutes ago, Linda Thomas said:              That can't be possible.  Why would your hubby call you so much.  He loves to talk to his sweetie!       He loves to bug his sweetie and he was bored and drinking lol. I had to finally be a bigger asshole for him to stop calling
1 hour ago, jillar said:                I'm an asshole          35 minutes ago, Wantsit said:               LOL!! I'm an asshole as well! But you ladies make me laugh so it's all good!                Is this the asshole check-in page?  If so, present!
    Hey now; I'm the original asshole  
On 11/30/2018 at 10:47 PM, reciprocity said:                Hey now; I'm the original asshole               O rly?  ezpz
    New insight... I am an asshole.
    Lol.!!!!
     
Boo is right. All that really matters is if you actually lit up or not.     Some people have this weird philosophy like just thinking of doing something is the same as doing it (like you have already sinned in your heart).      Well if THAT is the case then here is my confession - I have been smoking five packs a day since Oct 6 2017. No, I didn't smoke smoke but I did so in my heart. Not like through a vulva or vestibule in my throat but just imagining smoking. What is that hole in the throat called that some smokers get so they can smoke two cigarettes at once?       But if "just thinking of doing something" is the same as doing it, I have also been going to the gym, cleaning up my diet, working overtime, volunteering at the soup kitchen...
38 minutes ago, Jet Black said:             But if "just thinking of doing something" is the same as doing it, I have also been going to the gym, cleaning up my diet, working overtime, volunteering at the soup kitchen...                Smoking thoughts.  Craving thoughts.  Romanticizing thoughts....        They are all just thoughts.  They have as much or as little power as you give them.     Fighting a random thought or beating yourself up for having said thought are both complete wastes of time and energy.
    bump.... cos while it got a bit silly the original post was pretty brilliant.... and we have some newbies here who need a reminder... thinking about smoking and actually smoking are two different things... it doesn't matter how often you think about smoking as long as you just don't smoke you have been successful regardless of the conscious or sub-conscious thoughts.
On 11/29/2018 at 5:18 PM, Boo said:             Did I smoke today?                                      It is the one and only question that matters when quitting.  I've seen some recent posts in which people call themselves "bad quitters" because they craved and/or romanced the cigarette during their quit.  There is no such thing as a "bad quitter."  There are only successful quitters and smokers.                                       If you craved a cigarette but didn't smoke, you are a successful quitter.  If it took you a while to rewire your brain about the realities of cigarettes but you didn't smoke, you are a successful quitter.                                        Smoking is an addiction.  Cigarettes are something we conditioned ourselves with for years.  Quitting is a process.                                     If the process was a bit more difficult for you than others.  If it took you a little while longer to turn the corner than others.  If you really, really, really wanted to smoke a cigarette.  If you were grouchy, bordering on homicidal, during parts of your quit...If any of these conditions applied and you stayed true to your commitment and did not smoke, congratulations.  Your quit is every bit as much of a successful quit as anyone else's.                                       To smoke or not to smoke...it is the only question that matters when quitting.              You are right, @notsmokinjo  it is a great post.
    Oi newbies an inbetweenies.... Read this... Please.
                     
    Great bump ....
    Joel is brilliant. I binge watched him when I first quit, and still watch him now and again.
    Oh gonna steal that pic Boo!! I love that quote!
4 hours ago, Vivianne said:             Oh gonna steal that pic Boo!! I love that quote!                My entire philosophy of quitting smoking can be summed up with two quotes.  The above quote by Stephen R. Covey (the main thing...) and this one from our old friend Confucius...
It will be very interesting and encouraging to newbies as well as oldies how quitting smoking has had unexpected benefits in our lives. 
I'm a short answer kinda gal, so I'll be short.  :) Unexpected benefit was that I became much more self-confident.  While smoking, I always felt like "I couldn't. :( about so many things in life."  Quitting made me feel like, "I can, and it feels AWESOME!!!! :) :) :) "
For me NOPE isn't just a saying...it is a way of life now... Cigarettes used to be my way of life....now NOPE is my way of life.... Not One Puff Ever I do / say this every single day and have done since March 2014... Best free therapy I have ever been given.
I don't feel or smell like an ashtray anymore. :)
I don't feel or smell like an ashtray anymore. :) You smell fantastic :)
More physical activities without complaining. Not just talking gym stuff. All kinds of walking, bike riding. Taking the steps. Parking at en of lot so car don't get dinged. No problem.
I got to meet a whole lot of awesome people on this site
I got to meet a whole lot of awesome people on this site.... and we got to meet you, Awesome :)
I was not expecting a deep and unshakable confidence.  While I always used  'fake it till you make it' in my life and appeared to many as confident,  today,  I am in complete possession of myself. True Confidence, a great CALM in my spirit and a deeper Honesty with myself. My inner path is now open for further exploration.
I agree with petra it gives you a sense of confidence and achievement that you can change anything that before maybe fear was holding you back no matter how old you are you have the power to change things for the better a better job, partner hobby or fitness etc quitting smoking apart from the health and financial benefits opens up so many doors of possibilities you just got to go for it :)
Quitting has gave me a great jolt of self confidence, something I feel is clouded whilst smoking. Meeting great supportive people whom understand what you are going through, even though I am only surpassing my one month I also feel I am way less stressed. :)
Life will always have highs and lows.  As a non smoker the highs are higher, and the lows are not as bad.  I thought before that smoking alleviated stress-quite the opposite.
It is newer for me then many others here as I am just approaching 3 months - but I do feel as if I have more pride and confidence - I don't feel like the outcast trying to find somewhere I can just go and smoke - I am free to go where ever I wan,t I smell better, look better and feel better - I guess I don't feel ashamed anymore in the eyes of my kids, family and friends. It's just a great feeling to walk with my head held high again etc..
It is newer for me then many others here as I am just approaching 3 months - but I do feel as if I have more pride and confidence - I don't feel like the outcast trying to find somewhere I can just go and smoke - I am free to go where ever I wan,t I smell better, look better and feel better - I guess I don't feel ashamed anymore in the eyes of my kids, family and friends. It's just a great feeling to walk with my head held high again etc.. Isn't it amazing to not have to wonder if you smell like stale smoke?
I'm not clinging on my asthma puffs since I no longer smoke I still use the puffs but I never have an asthma attack!!!I'm FREE from chasing my neighbor and begging her for a fag!!! I dont smell horrible anymore.I still use the nicotine gum but am tapering it off in how long I use it no longer 4 mg but I'm on 2 mg. I can SMELL again!!!And whenever I feel an excuse raise in my head I just say NOPE and if neded write a post in SOS and while I write an SOS I already choose not to smoke but writing it down helps straighten it out!
I have finally took control of my life....Smoking never did help solve life's problems ,they were still there....I have gained confidence,my respect,my health ,and gained some great friends.....
I have started volunteering soo much more at the boys schools, something I have previously refused to do because I wouldn't be able to smoke and was afraid of having to be too close to other parents and teachers cos they would smell the smoke off me and I was soo ashamed of smoking, I would die if they had said anything to me about it, Have to make a load of Halloween treats and help sell them on Friday for a bake sale at James school, normally I'd not offer to help but now I'm Happy to do it and my son is delighted, he really wanted me to go to the party  and sell the cakes (apparently cos the cake sellers get to bring home all the leftovers so thats why he wants me there lll) Less time is wasted, more motivated to get out more with kids and hubby, more confidence, alot more calmer, I hated when we were out for the day and I kept trying to find excuses to disappear for a smoke and getting all angsty and stressed wanting one that I'd end up always getting everyone to leave earlier just because I wanted a stupid bloody cigarette.Fedl very guilty when i think of all the day outs I've ruined on my family because I choose cigarettes over my babies fun ; (Never ever again will I pick cigs over my family,  now we go out it's for the whole day and I get to enjoy every second of it :)
I'm a short answer kinda gal, so I'll be short.  :) Unexpected benefit was that I became much more self-confident.  While smoking, I always felt like "I couldn't. :( about so many things in life."  Quitting made me feel like, "I can, and it feels AWESOME!!!! :) :) :) "  SO TRUE!!!
I used to have digestive issues.  I will not explain any further then that.... but had no idea that it had to do with smoking.  I can actually eat and run now... fun.
FREEDOM - confidence and pride - huge for me. But in pure pragmatic terms... I used to smoke 30 or so a day. (Peaked at 60 per day, but had settled into 30 for the last few years.) I did not some in my house - I had to go outside.I did not smoke in my office - I had to go to the smoking area. Cigarette + Transit time = say 10 minutes.30 times 10300 minutes FIVE HOURS!!!!! Five hours every day of every week of every month of every year...imagine of you could bill that time back to the tobacco companies....
there are too many to list...because even today, after 2 years, I still am surprised to discover yet again..another benefit of quitting smoking. I think if I had to choose....it would be the realization that I can do anything I set my mind to. I am stronger than I think I am...and that One Day at a Time thing isn't just a saying...but a way to live. :)
The most obvious thing that comes to mind is I don't have that constant looming feeling that I've done something wrong.  I knew I shouldn't have been smoking but continued anyway just like the typical nicotine junkie.  Yesterday is gone so today I'm content.  I wish I could go back in time and not ever smoked but what's the point of even pondering that nonsense?  What's done is done and from here on out, I only feel good about my decision keep nicotine as far away from me as I can.
I have started volunteering soo much more at the boys schools, something I have previously refused to do because I wouldn't be able to smoke and was afraid of having to be too close to other parents and teachers cos they would smell the smoke off me and I was soo ashamed of smoking, I would die if they had said anything to me about it,Have to make a load of Halloween treats and help sell them on Friday for a bake sale at James school, normally I'd not offer to help but now I'm Happy to do it and my son is delighted, he really wanted me to go to the party and sell the cakes (apparently cos the cake sellers get to bring home all the leftovers so thats why he wants me there lll) Less time is wasted, more motivated to get out more with kids and hubby, more confidence, alot more calmer, I hated when we were out for the day and I kept trying to find excuses to disappear for a smoke and getting all angsty and stressed wanting one that I'd end up always getting everyone to leave earlier just because I wanted a stupid bloody cigarette.Fedl very guilty when i think of all the day outs I've ruined on my family because I choose cigarettes over my babies fun ; (Never ever again will I pick cigs over my family, now we go out it's for the whole day and I get to enjoy every second of it :)This is so true too!!!  I have to volunteer at my kids' school on this coming Friday.  I'm not really looking forward to it, cuz they are older (7 & 8 grade).  However, I'm also not worried that I have to be there all evening with no time to escape to smoke.  Quitting is just soooo freeing.  :)  It can be tough at moments - don't think it is always easy, but once you get through those first few times of unbearable cravings, it makes all the follwing ones so much easier.  Every crave you defeat makes you stronger!!! :)
AND.... (from me, the vain one)  You begin losing that smoker's "hue".  Your skin, hair, teeth, face, posture look healthier and happier.  Unexpected benefit for sure!!!  :)
I have started volunteering soo much more at the boys schools, something I have previously refused to do because I wouldn't be able to smoke and was afraid of having to be too close to other parents and teachers cos they would smell the smoke off me and I was soo ashamed of smoking, I would die if they had said anything to me about it,Have to make a load of Halloween treats and help sell them on Friday for a bake sale at James school, normally I'd not offer to help but now I'm Happy to do it and my son is delighted, he really wanted me to go to the party and sell the cakes (apparently cos the cake sellers get to bring home all the leftovers so thats why he wants me there lll) Less time is wasted, more motivated to get out more with kids and hubby, more confidence, alot more calmer, I hated when we were out for the day and I kept trying to find excuses to disappear for a smoke and getting all angsty and stressed wanting one that I'd end up always getting everyone to leave earlier just because I wanted a stupid bloody cigarette.Fedl very guilty when i think of all the day outs I've ruined on my family because I choose cigarettes over my babies fun ; (Never ever again will I pick cigs over my family, now we go out it's for the whole day and I get to enjoy every second of it :)You are so correct - I refused going to the school unless I timed it where I would have a cigarette - then take a quick shower so I didn't smell for the event but it had to be timed where I would get there right on time and could smoke right after - we were such addicts looking back - wtf was wrong with us.  I am so Happy for you Scooby and I know the kids are over the top with joy that you can go now.  :)
I agree with everything that has been said...the confidence is wonderful.  Also, I am amazed at the financial benefits...I've saved almost $4500 not smoking, and recently learned I will be saving $600 more a year on  my life insurance premiums!  It is all good!!
A bit late but here´s my reply. To be honest I didn´t know how many things would change now that I don´t smoke. I knew I would have more money and feel better and all those things but I didn´t knew is a gateway to getting healthier in other ways. I started exercising, caring more about what I eat (I´ve always been too conscious of calories and that kind of stuff but now I care of the quality and nutrients of food) and taking care of myself in general. The smelling better issue! When I smoked I didn´t realize how disgusting the smell is! The QuitTrain was also an unexpected great surprise. This isn´t just another quit smoking forum, but a family. I´ve made great friends and I know I´m never lonely anymore. Finally, where it all started. I definitely sleep better now! Love my smoke free life!  -Nat 
There are so many things that have improved since I quit smoking - I didn't realise it at the time, but smoker action was a selfish jerk!  Smoking, or planning my next smoke was always the most important thing there was... Now I spend more time thinking about important things like my family, my career and my well being.  I honestly just didn't think life could Beas good as it is now.   Oh, and I saved a butt-load of cash, too!
    Quitting,  along with a realized inner strength, has boosted my compassion.  Always a helpful trait.
    bumpity bump bump       Please add to this great thread !
I discovered I had much more energy. I started exercising and I’ve lost 8 kilo since I’d quit. I’ve become better to work according to the plan and I don’t give new things up so easily. Still having confidence issues but depressive episodes are much shorter now.
Nice thread, so bumpbump.       Only in for 5+ weeks, but one fast and very unexpected benefit for me is the way my mental well being is catching up with my physical vitality.     For the past 5 weeks I've been reading and writing and walking and learning new things  (like practising giqong,  eating with chopsticks, replacing cigarets for just a few minutes of self investigation when I had an urge). Apparantly I really am making new pathways up there!         My biggest concern when I quit was about panick attacks/dissociation and depression. I truly feared these and can honestly say they worried me much more than any physical illness smoking would give me. Have had to battle them all my life and I know how close to complete misery  they have brought me before and I just was. Not. Going. To. Go. There. Anymore. Not after everything I've done to learn to deal with them.       And here I am. Almost six weeks in. Had my moments of anxiety and I'm sure they will come again.  I'ts just nowhere near what I expected, it ACTUALLY got better! Whoah!!  Edited October 1, 2018 by My life, my recovery
    It's often the case that the anticipation of what "might happen" is worse than what actually does happen after we quit. It's not unusual to be surprised, and pleased, when this happens  Understanding the addiction and focusing on the benefits you start seeing rather than the misery of early quit days helps a lot! 
27 minutes ago, My life, my recovery said:              Nice thread, so bumpbump.                                       Only in for 5+ weeks, but one fast and very unexpected benefit for me is the way my mental well being is catching up with my physical vitality.                             For the past 5 weeks I've been reading and writing and walking and learning new things  (like practising giqong,  eating with chopsticks, replacing cigarets for just a few minutes of self investigation when I had an urge). Apparantly I really am making new pathways up there!                                         My biggest concern when I quit was about panick attacks/dissociation and depression. I truly feared these and can honestly say they worried me much more than any physical illness smoking would give me. Have had to battle them all my life and I know how close to complete misery  they have brought me before and I just was. Not. Going. To. Go. There. Anymore. Not after everything I've done to learn to deal with them.                                       And here I am. Almost six weeks in. Had my moments of anxiety and I'm sure they will come again.  I'ts just nowhere near what I expected, it ACTUALLY got better! Whoah!!           It gets better and better, at around 6 months i had taken some photos and posted on facebook like everyone does and i noticed how younger and how smooth my skin looked. Amazing, you will have many more unexpected benefits.... Enjoy them all!!
    I am early on of course. But the rewards this quit have been NOTHING short of amazing !  No clue why this time and not the other times i tried...its so awesome  The extra time, the not stinking, the not freaking planning my day around smoking. The ease, the confidence, the savings...of health and money...the list goes on and on....I am just so damn happy !!!!!   
1 hour ago, Parsley said:               I am ﻿just so damn happy !!!!!          I've always loved my quit!! Keep that with you; even when nothing else is going right, you can find happiness and motivation there.     Confidence is the #1. I thought I had it before but I've learned I used smoking as a way to remain antisocial and unapproachable. (I guess holding on to that 15yr old tough girl attitude)Now, I have no problem taking the middle seat at the dr office or standing close to the other moms at the book fair. #2 Happiness. Truly being happy for myself was foreign before my quit. I had to light a cigarette to tell me to be happy. Never again.  #3 There is a new closeness in my family because we aren't missing moments for cigarettes. I learned how to ask for help.   I could write a book. I love the new non-smoking me!
Amen! I didn't love the first 20 days. But ditto the rest.  I guess I thought in the earlier quits...that I had to suffer, be miserable, feel slighted, annoyed, pissed, sad on and on.....crap out and buy cigs and give up. Repeat.   But I stayed here after last failure over a year ago and here I am...a happy quitter....first couple weeks not awesome. I am not Mary Poppins.....but here I am....loving my quit!!!    Sooooo....never give up quitting..
    Not having to ask the kid for a hug and a kiss goodnight... she just does it because I don't stink anymore.... love that the most.
    The circulation around my ankles was noticeable... Very early in my quit...almost instant...the heavy dull ache/pain had subsided.heaps...  I still get blown away when I another benieft moment... Simple thing,s...taking a big deep smell of the aroma of my brother,s beautiful rose,s.....my nose was dead....
    I am early on of course. But the rewards this quit have been NOTHING short of amazing !  No clue why this time and not the other times i tried...its so awesome  The extra time, the not stinking, the not freaking planning my day around smoking. The ease, the confidence, the savings...of health and money...the list goes on and on....I am just so damn happy !!!!!   
    Freedom.
    Time to revisit this positive thread.   What are the ways quitting smoking has affected your life ?
    Just not having to worry about the whole damn smoking routine and everything that's connected to it. Smoking ran my entire day to day life. Now, it's just not part of my life at all. In fact, it's hard for me to imagine myself as a smoker now. That's a good thing  
My life has changed in so many ways ....    I was in constant state of worry.....   Have I got enough smokes ....   Is there anywhere to smoke ...  It totally ruled my life ....   Will I die a smoker...it goes on and on ....    I just carnt picture me puffing on a ciggy now.... I would be physically ill....    And there says ..A 52 year smoker ... unbelievable...!!!
    I have gained a lot of knowledge in the neuroscience field. I am way more talkative (which is a good thing in my case)  My house is clean because I don't use my "need a smoke break" as distraction    Less distraction in general Less air and environmental polution!         
    The last weekend was a billion percent stressful for a variety of reasons. However, the strange thing is that it didn't cross my mind at any time to have a cig. It's not that I had to fight an urge, I just didn't think about them. I can only put it down to my no option situation. That has really done it for me.    I'm not complacent though, I know how the monster works. I realise that the demon is just trying another tactic with me so I'm on guard against the trickery.
    So sorry you had a stressful weekend, but how great that you didn't have to fight the urge to light up! Always great to be on guard, though. For sure.
    Sorry about your rough weekend but I'm very happy you were not tempted to light up.  That's awesome.
    Aww sorry you had a bad time ...you didn't think of smoking ..  Well done ...this can be tough ......but you came through strong .. Hope things improve for you MB....   
    Sorry for your stress Phil, and happy for you that smoking wasn't an option. Well done! 
    Well done all mighty!! Sorry bout the stress :s
    You've taken smoking off the table and realize that smoking is not some magic cure for stress.      It is always encouraging to see quitters address the big issues early in the process.       You are building a mighty quit for yourself Mr. Boosh.  Good job.
    You Quit Smoking, Mighty One !      Congratulations to you.     Stay vigilant and focused.  Nicotine has nothing for you, never had, never will.    Freedom.  Freedom.  Freedom.
I had a really stressful time about 6 weeks into my quit that really tested me. That was the last really big test for me. I mean, I had urges and what not after that but no real close call. You got through it and that alone will be there for you to call on in future. It's a good thing!! Sucks to have stress in your life but great to know you can get through it without even thinking about smoking - that's the silver lining to your dark cloud
    Oh Mightyboosh, stressful days do creep in on occasion.  Feel so proud you did not think to smoke.  You are getting more powerful every day.  I do hope tomorrow will be much better! 
    Well done on not smoking.       Stress is the main excuse everyone uses to light up but you stayed smoke free.      Go and treat yourself to something - definitely deserved. 
7 hours ago, Boo said:              You've taken smoking off the table and realize that smoking is not some magic cure for stress.                                  That's it in a nutshell.
     
What are some other excuses to smoke? Excuses to smokeJUNKIE THINKING: “One Puff won’t hurt”RESPONSE: “One puff will always hurt me, and it always will because I’m not a social smoker. One puff and I’ll be smoking compulsively again.” JUNKIE THINKING: “I only want one.”RESPONSE: “I have never wanted only one. In fact, I want 20-30 a day every day. I want them all.” JUNKIE THINKING: “I’ll just be a social smoker.”RESPONSE: “I’m a chronic, compulsive smoker, and once I smoke one I’ll quickly be thinking about the next one. Social smokers can take it or leave it. That’s not me.” JUNKIE THINKING: “I’m doing so well, one won’t hurt me now.”RESPONSE: “The only reason I’m doing so well is because I haven’t taken the first one. Yet once I do, I won’t be doing well anymore. I’ll be smoking again.” JUNKIE THINKING: “I’ll just stop again.”RESPONSE: “Sounds easy, but who am I trying to kid? Look how long it too me to stop this time. And once I start, how long will it take before I get sick enough to face withdrawal again? In fact, when I’m back in the grip of compulsion, what guarantee do I have that I’ll ever be able to stop again?” JUNKIE THINKING: “If I slip, I’ll keep trying.”RESPONSE: “If I think I can get away with one little “slip” now I’ll think I can get away with another little “slip” later on.” JUNKIE THINKING: “I need one to get me through this withdrawal.”RESPONSE: “Smoking will not get me through the discomfort of not smoking. I will only get me back to smoking. One puff stops the process of withdrawal and I’ll have to go through it all over again.” JUNKIE THINKING: “I miss smoking right now.”RESPONSE: “Of course I miss something I’ve been doing every day for most of my life. Bud do I miss the chest pain right now? Do I miss the worry, the embarrassment? I’d rather be an ex-smoker with an occasional desire to smoke, than a smoker with a constant desire to stop doing it.” JUNKIE THINKING: “I really need to smoke now, I’m so upset.”RESPONSE: “Smoking is not going to fix anything. I’ll still be upset, I’ll just be an upset smoker. I never have to have a cigarette. Smoking is not a need; it’s a want. Once the crisis is over, I’ll be relieved and grateful I’m still not smoking.” JUNKIE THINKING: “I don’t care.”RESPONSE: “What is it exactly that I think that I don’t care about? Can I truthfully say I don’t care about chest pain? I don’t care about gagging in the morning? I don’t care about lung cancer? No, I care about these things very much. That’s why I stopped smoking in the first place.” JUNKIE THINKING: “What difference does it make, anyway?”RESPONSE: “It makes a difference in the way I breathe, the way my heart beats, the way I feel about myself. It makes a tremendous difference in every aspect of my physical and emotional health.”http://www.quitsmokinghelp.ca/mustread/junkiethinking.html
JUNKIE THINKING: " I'm not an addict ”RESPONSE: Yes.  You are.   Easy Peasy
I LOVE this MQ. So true. I especially love this: I’d rather be an ex-smoker with an occasional desire to smoke, than a smoker with a constant desire to stop doing it Yes, I would rather deal with the temporary withdrawal than ever smoke again! Blowing your quit is not worth it!
A great reminder.....my junkie brain found any excuse to smoke.......
Oh my. I think I sabotaged my previous quits with all of those.  Before I understood this addiction. Now, every now and again I think about it, but I can honestly say I can't REMEMBER exactly how it felt to smoke.  I honestly can't.   I just tried and it's gone.  And good riddance!
 I can't REMEMBER exactly how it felt to smokeCongratulations. You have arrived at The Destination.   Easy Peasy
JUNKIE THINKING: " I'm not an addict ”RESPONSE: Yes.  You are.Easy PeasyThis is, by far, the HARDEST one for me to accept.   I hate that word being applicable to describe any part of my being.  To me, it's a sign of weakness.  Something I can't control.  And that's not acceptable to me.  I went to New Orleans the other day and I could see the junkies sitting on the street.  One looked like he had inhaled far too many cans of paint.  And I thought, that's not me.  I'm not like that AT ALL.  I am coming to terms that it could actually be me.  Cigarettes are legal.  If they weren't , what would I do to get one ?  I think I would have done just about anything....... I don't know.  I still have a hard time with calling myself an addict.  
Calling me weak......ok. Stubborn, hard headed.....ok An addict......that's to the core
Say it with The Sarge, Tiff : " I am an addict " Say it every day. Out loud.    Easy Peasy
You know what, Tiffany?  When my Dr. called me an addict I was pissed.  He wasn't buying what I was selling and laughed when I asked him if he was serious when he called me an addict.  How ignorant I was. Once I accepted that I was a nicotine addict and would be for the rest of my life, it became okay for me to think about smoking.  Thinking about smoking and wanting to smoke is different for me.  I think about smoking everyday but I don't want to smoke everyday.
IM GONNA PRINT THIS ! AND PUT ON MY BED ROOM THANKS
Bump
It is so true!
Truly agreed...
Topical.  
Topical. Indeed Easy Peasy
It's the same issue that always repeats itself.  Perhaps this is the tree in the road that stops Tiffany from taking this to the next level.  What do you think, Tiffany?
Topical. Can you please elaborate on this ?  ^^^^^ It's the same issue that always repeats itself.  Perhaps this is the tree in the road that stops Tiffany from taking this to the next level.  What do you think, Tiffany?My thoughts ?  I don't understand why we have to keep discussing this.   Ok, I'm not the junkie sitting on the side of the road in NOLA.   The tree sitting in the road was my refusal (remember, it's a choice) to quit smoking.  This does not qualify me as an addict.  Nor does it you.  But if it works for you to call yourself that, then by all means, do what works for you. I'm not going to try to convince you that you're not.  Just don't smoke.   But I will say this..... I will NEVER address on here if I'm struggling again.  Because all you're going to do is tell me I'm struggling cause I refuse to admit that I am some sort of addict in denial.  It can't be something as simple as I am addicted to nicotine and still trying to process through it.  No, it has to be that I HAVE TO HAVE A LABEL ON MY HEAD.  And somehow, this label will take away any struggle I am going through.  I call BULLSHIT.   EVERY. SINGLE. TIME. I smoked, I made that CHOICE.   My thoughts.   And obviously, it's going to be an ongoing thing to change them.  So I get to choose on here if I want to label myself as an addict or sit back and let y'all label me as hard headed, stubborn or an addict in denial.   Do what y'all need to do. Oh and by the way MQ, I thought I was taking it to the next level.  I haven't smoked.
Can you please elaborate on this ? ^^^^^ My thoughts ? I don't understand why we have to keep discussing this.   It is topical because we spent two pages talking about Addict and Addiction on your thread.This sent me searching for posts about Addiction, Junkie Thoughts, etc.  so I could learn more. You will see that I bumped a few threads that were relevant to the subject. This is not just about you, Tiffany.  It is about the whole subject of Addiction, a discussion essential in dealing with an addictive substance.Opening up the conversation separate from your quitting thread may be helpful to everybody. S
That's fair.   Thank you. I may have taken it personally cause we just had this same conversation on another thread.   I apologize for that.  
I'm not intentionally dogging you around. 
Tiffany I do hope you call out, on here, if you have a day where it feels a struggle. Remember not everyone thinks you have to have the addict label, before you can have a successful quit..I'm living proof that theory is tosh. All you have to do is what you're doing, not smoking, so you're no longer a smoker anymore...twenty two days you've been doing that..rinse and repeat.
I assume we all can agree with the Fact that Nicotine is an Addictive substanceHere is The American Society of Addiction Medicine's definition of addiction from their website.  ASAM  "Short Definition of Addiction:Addiction is a primary, chronic disease of brain reward, motivation, memory and related circuitry. Dysfunction in these circuits leads to characteristic biological, psychological, social and spiritual manifestations. This is reflected in an individual pathologically pursuing reward and/or relief by substance use and other behaviors.Addiction is characterized by inability to consistently abstain, impairment in behavioral control, craving, diminished recognition of significant problems with one’s behaviors and interpersonal relationships, and a dysfunctional emotional response. Like other chronic diseases, addiction often involves cycles of relapse and remission. Without treatment or engagement in recovery activities, addiction is progressive and can result in disability or premature death. Long Definition of Addiction:Addiction is a primary, chronic disease of brain reward, motivation, memory and related circuitry. Addiction affects neurotransmission and interactions within reward structures of the brain, including the nucleus accumbens, anterior cingulate cortex, basal forebrain and amygdala, such that motivational hierarchies are altered and addictive behaviors, which may or may not include alcohol and other drug use, supplant healthy, self-care related behaviors. Addiction also affects neurotransmission and interactions between cortical and hippocampal circuits and brain reward structures, such that the memory of previous exposures to rewards (such as food, sex, alcohol and other drugs) leads to a biological and behavioral response to external cues, in turn triggering craving and/or engagement in addictive behaviors.The neurobiology of addiction encompasses more than the neurochemistry of reward.1 The frontal cortex of the brain and underlying white matter connections between the frontal cortex and circuits of reward, motivation and memory are fundamental in the manifestations of altered impulse control, altered judgment, and the dysfunctional pursuit of rewards (which is often experienced by the affected person as a desire to “be normal”) seen in addiction--despite cumulative adverse consequences experienced from engagement in substance use and other addictive behaviors. The frontal lobes are important in inhibiting impulsivity and in assisting individuals to appropriately delay gratification. When persons with addiction manifest problems in deferring gratification, there is a neurological locus of these problems in the frontal cortex. Frontal lobe morphology, connectivity and functioning are still in the process of maturation during adolescence and young adulthood, and early exposure to substance use is another significant factor in the development of addiction. Many neuroscientists believe that developmental morphology is the basis that makes early-life exposure to substances such an important factor.Genetic factors account for about half of the likelihood that an individual will develop addiction. Environmental factors interact with the person’s biology and affect the extent to which genetic factors exert their influence. Resiliencies the individual acquires (through parenting or later life experiences) can affect the extent to which genetic predispositions lead to the behavioral and other manifestations of addiction. Culture also plays a role in how addiction becomes actualized in persons with biological vulnerabilities to the development of addiction.Other factors that can contribute to the appearance of addiction, leading to its characteristic bio-psycho-socio-spiritual manifestations, include:The presence of an underlying biological deficit in the function of reward circuits, such that drugs and behaviors which enhance reward function are preferred and sought as reinforcers;The repeated engagement in drug use or other addictive behaviors, causing neuroadaptation in motivational circuitry leading to impaired control over further drug use or engagement in addictive behaviors;Cognitive and affective distortions, which impair perceptions and compromise the ability to deal with feelings, resulting in significant self-deception;Disruption of healthy social supports and problems in interpersonal relationships which impact the development or impact of resiliencies;Exposure to trauma or stressors that overwhelm an individual’s coping abilities;Distortion in meaning, purpose and values that guide attitudes, thinking and behavior;Distortions in a person’s connection with self."
The way I see it...If nobody cared less TIFF whether you smoked or not...they wouldn't bother even writing one word to you..What i DO see is folks trying to help you along..OK ..sometimes we don't always see eye to eye...but its help never the less...Don't stay away...this is old patterns..Coming here and staying quit..that proof enough you want it..no matter what..x
Tiffany I do hope you call out, on here, if you have a day where it feels a struggle. Remember not everyone thinks you have to have the addict label, before you can have a successful quit..I'm living proof that theory is tosh. All you have to do is what you're doing, not smoking, so you're no longer a smoker anymore...twenty two days you've been doing that..rinse and repeat. I will do whatever it takes to not smoke.   I actually think I am coming through the curve now.  I'm having good days where I'm not thinking about it much.   And should I have a bad one and I REALLY think I'm fixing to take that horrid plunge...... I will come on here.   I probably shouldn't have said that this morning.  It just kinda took me off guard.    The way I see it...If nobody cared less TIFF whether you smoked or not...they wouldn't bother even writing one word to you..What i DO see is folks trying to help you along..OK ..sometimes we don't always see eye to eye...but its help never the less...Don't stay away...this is old patterns..Coming here and staying quit..that proof enough you want it..no matter what..x I know y'all do. And I am very thankful for all the help I have received.  I have often thought of things said now and in past quits.  And for whatever reason..... maybe cause I am ready...... I am finally hearing y'all.   I feel bad that I said that.  I'm so sorry.  I do appreciate it very much.  
Tiff I can see why you said what you said. Don't feel bad at anything you have said, was frustration no doubt, and quite understandable. I felt frustrated for you.
On 4/2/2014 at 4:19 AM, MarylandQuitter said:   What are some other excuses to smoke?                   Excuses to smokeJUNKIE THINKING: “One Puff won’t hurt”          RESPONSE: “One puff will always hurt me, and it always will because I’m not a social smoker. One puff and I’ll be smoking compulsively again.”                          JUNKIE THINKING: “I only want one.”         RESPONSE: “I have never wanted only one. In fact, I want 20-30 a day every day. I want them all.”                           JUNKIE THINKING: “I’ll just be a social smoker.”            RESPONSE: “I’m a chronic, compulsive smoker, and once I smoke one I’ll quickly be thinking about the next one. Social smokers can take it or leave it. That’s not me.”                          JUNKIE THINKING: “I’m doing so well, one won’t hurt me now.”            RESPONSE: “The only reason I’m doing so well is because I haven’t taken the first one. Yet once I do, I won’t be doing well anymore. I’ll be smoking again.”                            JUNKIE THINKING: “I’ll just stop again.”            RESPONSE: “Sounds easy, but who am I trying to kid? Look how long it too me to stop this time. And once I start, how long will it take before I get sick enough to face withdrawal again? In fact, when I’m back in the grip of compulsion, what guarantee do I have that I’ll ever be able to stop again?”                         JUNKIE THINKING: “If I slip, I’ll keep trying.”         RESPONSE: “If I think I can get away with one little “slip” now I’ll think I can get away with another little “slip” later on.”                         JUNKIE THINKING: “I need one to get me through this withdrawal.”            RESPONSE: “Smoking will not get me through the discomfort of not smoking. I will only get me back to smoking. One puff stops the process of withdrawal and I’ll have to go through it all over again.”                          JUNKIE THINKING: “I miss smoking right now.”            RESPONSE: “Of course I miss something I’ve been doing every day for most of my life. Bud do I miss the chest pain right now? Do I miss the worry, the embarrassment? I’d rather be an ex-smoker with an occasional desire to smoke, than a smoker with a constant desire to stop doing it.”                         JUNKIE THINKING: “I really need to smoke now, I’m so upset.”            RESPONSE: “Smoking is not going to fix anything. I’ll still be upset, I’ll just be an upset smoker. I never have to have a cigarette. Smoking is not a need; it’s a want. Once the crisis is over, I’ll be relieved and grateful I’m still not smoking.”                            JUNKIE THINKING: “I don’t care.”            RESPONSE: “What is it exactly that I think that I don’t care about? Can I truthfully say I don’t care about chest pain? I don’t care about gagging in the morning? I don’t care about lung cancer? No, I care about these things very much. That’s why I stopped smoking in the first place.”                           JUNKIE THINKING: “What difference does it make, anyway?”            RESPONSE: “It makes a difference in the way I breathe, the way my heart beats, the way I feel about myself. It makes a tremendous difference in every aspect of my physical and emotional health.”      http://www.quitsmokinghelp.ca/mustread/junkiethinking.html       This whole thread is interesting, how we face reality and admit that we are nicotine addicts.For some, this admission is more difficult than for others.    I was in complete denial about addiction for the 40 something years of smoking.It was only just before I quit that I flirted with calling myself a junkie.'I'm going outside to shoot up', I would say as a quasi joke but, Deep Down, I knew.After I quit and educated myself here and there, denial was visible and ridiculous.   Another post that addresses our 'junkie thinking' Red Flags.
Dishonesty is the #1 impediment to success in quitting.     Every one of those Junkie Thoughts is dishonest. Most rising to the level of Outright Lies.     First and foremost under the Dishonesty Banner for most folks? Denial.  We all know the facts here.     We knew them all along.     We chose willful Denial.        **      Sarge is wagering that she never successfully quit.     EZPZ
    Bump
I know a lot of people have had insomnia kick in when quitting smoking.  It didn't for me, I was able to use sleep to escape some triggers/cravesbut, for those who are having this issue, here is our friend, Joel, addressing the issue.I would also suggest using simple remedies like meditation, chamomile tea, turning off screens prior to bedtime etc.   Have y'all any tips about putting yourselves to sleep ?     Video describes how sleep may become disrupted in the first days of nicotine withdrawal but will eventually return to a normal pattern.         Sleep AdjustmentsSleep can get pretty disruptive the first few days. Some people will get very little sleep, waking up every hour or not sleeping at all yet not feel tired.Others can sleep 20 hours a day and be exhausted during their waking hours.     Whichever way it goes, sleep will adjust itself when you quit and eventually go back to normal.But there is a catch. You don't know what normal is. Normal is what it was prior to being a smoker with aging thrown in. Some people have not been normal for decades.   Nicotine is a stimulant drug that once it wore off threw the smoker into a physiologically depressed state.To overcome this depressant effect the smoker would smoke again to stimulate him or herself. Soon it would wear off and the endless cycle would be repeated over and over.Blood sugar and hormone levels would skyrocket, only to come crashing down later. By the end of the day the smoker could be physically exhausted from this chronic stimulant/depressant roller coaster.They had to adjust their sleep around these effects.    Without this chronic abuse, these ex-smokers may find that they can get by on less sleep after they quit smoking,sometimes knocking out hours of what they thought was needed sleep time.   Others only minimize sleep by a short time period but it is very obvious when the alarm goes off they can jump out of bed full of energy and ready to go, or sometimes even wake up before the alarm with newfound energy. When they were smokers they were often exhausted upon waking, hating the alarm and needing cigarettes to pick them up and get them going.    There are a smaller number of people who need more sleep when they are ex-smokers. These are people who often smoked heavily at the tail end of their days. Their bodies were crying for sleep but they kept pumping nicotine into their system to override the body's need.Without nicotine as a constant stimulant, they now have to listen to their bodies and go to bed when tired.     They could take speed and get the same effects but normally realize that they wouldn't resort to a drug for this effect, yet they can rationalize that smoking was suitable for the exact same purpose.Well it wasn't. The schedule they were maintaining had a price attached and the long range cost for this "benefit" could be death.   Anyway, don't panic by the amount of sleep you get for the first few days.It is not your normal amount of sleep as an ex-smoker, it is your normal amount of sleep while in drug withdrawal. These are not "normal" times, nor will they last long. Anyone experiencing such problems the first week or two after quitting probably is likely just having adjustment issues.    But, a health care professional should evaluate disruptions lasting longer, especially beyond a month. Many other causes can be responsible for such disruptions including physical, psychological, medication reactions, etc.Blaming such symptoms of sleep disruption on quitting smoking for a few days in most cases is probably justified, but at longer periods the ex-smoker needs to be more objective and getting a professional medical evaluation is then warranted.     Sleep will eventually settle in to a normal pattern for you as an ex-smoker. Then aging will exert its normal adjustments. Whether it turns out to be more sleep or less, you should at least sleep sounder knowing you are no longer under the control of nicotine and no longer posing such deadly risks to yourself by still smoking.    To sleep happier because you know you are staying healthier and likely to live longer,always remember all the times you are awake to Never Take Another Puff!
These videos and links are a great resource for those quitting and for those quit also.     Day by day, You learn about Nicotine Addiction  and what you may expect,  what you are going thorough  and, why.     Joel's Quit Smoking Library: Daily Quitting Lesson GuideEdited October 16 by Sazerac
    thank you brothers and sisters. I used NRT
Congrats on 21 days Juan, well done!
    Yay, Juan ! Congratulations on being smoke free.    Thank you for checking in.  S
Yay!  3 weeks in the books.  This is FANTASTIC juan.  Your  body is thanking you in many ways.  Keep your quit growing! Edited October 6 by Lust4Life
    Congratulations Juan.  Keep up the great work!
    so happy for you Juan!!  Glad you are back here!
    thanks babs thank you brothers and sisters its been hard very hard
    It will get better Juan we promise you ...you just have to fight ....your doing great ...
    Congratulations, Juan! You are doing so great. I know it's hard in the beginning, but it does get easier. I promise. The only way out is through! Just keep moving forward, one day at a time.
    Juan,   Did you see The Sarge's post about what is hard ?   You may be uncomfortable but, you can power through this.   Put your mind to beautiful things instead of thinking that this is hard,    help your brain re-configure itself.
    yeah i saw it and he is right
10 minutes ago, Juanrmartino2 said:             yeah i saw it and he is right               here it is          You think you have a hard time but you don't.   Just imagine: twice weekly Chemo treatment ... breathing from a tube up your nose fed by some Oxygen concentrator.  An hour or so baking your internal organs under the Radiation Emitter.  Wasting away on a Terminal Diagnosis with mere months to live..     That's a hard time.     A. Real. Hard. Time.    This?   This is nothing.    NOTHING.    EZPZ
    The sarge is right Juan ... COPD is a horrible illness ...there is no cure ....trust me ...you don't want that ...  Stay positive .....your ticker is looking good ...
    Juan ....how's it going ????.....
    I'm in a lot of pain today. A lot. My autoimmune disease is kicking my arse. But you know what's helping me get through it?     - You people    - Spanking the sticks on Chicks or Sticks   - Ginger ale (for the stomach discomfort)   - Coffee (for the fatigue)  - Ibuprofen - My dogs   - Sunshine coming in my office window   - Comfy, soft pajama pants      Do you know what I'm not doing to help me get through it?   - Smoking       My life is scary right now, and many of my days are filled with extreme discomfort. And yes, there are times when my brain whispers to me, "Just light up. The dopamine rush will make you feel better." But I don't. I resist. And I use the tools I have available to me to distract myself. And pretty soon I can't hear those whispers anymore.     If I can do it, you can do it.      Just don't smoke.    
    I am SO glad you are here, Abby and so sorry you are not feeling well.      You are right, you won't be hearing 'those whispers'  after a while.    Get your dopamine from breathing beautiful deep clean breaths and give yourself rewards and LOTS of them !  You are doing so great and your posts are so important.     Also, it is GREAT spanking The Sticks...that never gets old.
    Sorry about your rough day Abby, I hope you start feeling better soon. Thank you for posting this to show others that nothing is worth losing your quit over, xoxo
    The one good thing is that really bad days are often followed by much better days. So I'm looking forward to tomorrow. :-)
    Sorry you are suffering today Abby. As you say ..... tomorrow will be better - brighter - filled with positive thoughts 
    Yes there can be some rough days but it seems like you have built up quite an arsenal of tools to help you maintain the quit.  Also those whispers become even more quiet over time.  Way to keep strong!!!!
38 minutes ago, abbynormal said:                I'm in a lot of pain today. A lot. My autoimmune disease is kicking my arse.                My Mrs has Lupus so if it's anything similar, I know what you're saying.
    I’m sorry you’re in extra pain today! I’m so happy you know smoking won’t help & did not let those whispers taunt you for long.         Hoping tomorrow is a better day for you!
4 hours ago, abbynormal said:               The one good thing is that really bad days are often followed by much better days. So I'm looking forward to tomorrow.      You have a great attitude Abby.
5 hours ago, mightyboosh said:                                  My Mrs has Lupus so if it's anything similar, I know what you're saying.            What I have is very similar to lupus. I'm sorry to hear she struggles with that.
17 hours ago, abbynormal said:              The one good thing is that really bad days are often followed by much better days. So I'm looking forward to tomorrow.      I hope you're having that good day today with many more to follow.
    I also hope you are having a better day today, Abby.        Keep fighting and you are right - smoking will not help at all.  Stay strong and keep the quit.
    Abby I hope you're feeling better.      Thinking of you x x x
    Sorry to hear you,ve  had a rough day. You are doing really well with your quit.Keep going and  I hope some better days happen for you very soon.
GO!
No more constant congestion and that irritating cough...
You can smell...for the most part this is a good one.  But if your SO still smokes, maybe not.  Seriously, I might sleep on the couch tonight!   :huh:
No more guilt
More timeLess stressSmell niceSmell and Taste betterMore energyMaking positive changesmore moneyfeel fitter and healthierdo not feel like an outcast at social eventsno guilt - good one MQmet you bunch of lovely/crazy people
I'm Hella cooler smoke free.  B)
No more burning holes in my clothes, and no more oh schlitz, panic, did it go in the back seat.
No more stank breath for others to breathe as I talk to them. I can smell the shampoo in my hair when the wind blows.  lol
No more shame. I used to feel SO embarrassed that I smoked. There were people in my life who I hid it from on the daily. Glad I no longer have to hide anything. Also, I was an idiot... they knew I smoked all along, or at least had suspicions that I did. They could smell it on my clothes and breath!
My deep breath is 4 times deeper than my smoking deep breath - I love this!Sense of smell (mostly good apart from bad smells also more noticable lol)Food taste - wow!!Sense of being able to achieve things - massive increase!!Inspiring those I love to try, makes my heart happy. I love not smoking even though my brain occasionally tries to trick me that I might.
Empowerment
Being able to kiss my boyfriend without him telling me I taste like an ashtray!
Biggest benefit for me:  freedom from slavery of nicotine addiction.  Small benefit:  I just noticed this morning when I switched purses.  It was the first time I didn't have to take it outside and dump all the loose tobacco out of it. :).  Even almost 2 years later the benefits still come....no matter how big or small.
Biggest benefit for me: freedom from slavery of nicotine addiction. Small benefit: I just noticed this morning when I switched purses. It was the first time I didn't have to take it outside and dump all the loose tobacco out of it. :). Even almost 2 years later the benefits still come....no matter how big or small.Good one Babs!
Your head clears from the smoke in your brain and you think better! You start using that brain again and think what the heck did I smoke for in the fist place! I think you make better decisions and know what you want and do it. Energy - Off the scales, getting twice the work done without being tired!
I am so  made up that I am free I notice something every day. Today it's pouring down and I no longer need to dart to the garage, to scratch my itch/smoke, and get soaking wet.
When I fill out a survey that asks if Im a smoker.......I can check the little box that says non-smoker and declare loudly "I aint no stinky smoker!"
Waking up refreshed and ready to start the day! No more dark circles under my eyes!
Healthier, Fitter, Funner.... Sexier... No..... really!
Healthier, Fitter, Funner.... Sexier... No..... really! So is that picture of you in your avatar before or after you quit smoking?
Self Esteem.
Not feeling ashamed and embarrassed when I snuck out for a cigarette while dining in a restaurant with non-smoking friends.  Not feeling dirty and disgusting when a non-smoker got in my car.  Having no need to justify spending money on little extras for myself.  I will never again pull my car over in a panic because I'm afraid that the butt I was tossing out the window landed in the backseat and 5k down the road I'll be on fire. No more looking foolish at the side of the road searching for the butt that might or might not be in the back seat.
Waking up without a nagging cough. 
Today's benefit for me..... As I no longer spend £64 a week, on the muck, I suprised and treated my daughters to £20 each to take on their shopping trip with their pals. Felt so good to know that money will go towards fun instead of death. They will have a ball!
No persistent cough,  wheezing, better health in general, more energy, stamina, lung capacity so you can be more physically active,  no stale cigarette smell everywhere, no ciggie burns on clothes, furniture,  car seats etc,  No constant fear that "it's too late " and that you already have gotten a horrible smoking related disease, no driving to the gas station in the middle of the night, being able to enjoy all kinds of activities without disruption, being less anxious, stressed and angry, more peaceful,  an improved life in every way because once you quit you start caring about your health more,  and yourself.
No more stank breath for others to breathe as I talk to them. I can smell the shampoo in my hair when the wind blows.  lol Yes! I love the smelling my hair part. Mmm
So is that picture of you in your avatar before or after you quit smoking?That my ***** Cat friend is Before... The After is just too hot... for here.  (I am actually Actions Fatter funnier brother.... ;) )
Today's benefit for me.... Husband has just mowed the lawn, the smell....just beautiful.
Not having to desperately count money in hopes of having enough for a pack of cigs!
I don't have cold hands or feet anymore....I just noticed that the other day and it surprised me. I always had cold hands and feet, even in summer....that was a big eye opener!
Got rid of the nasty throat clearing thing I had to do all the time! I was a major closet smoker, if I were out & about town, I would have to drive and go find some hiding place to smoke.  PA-thetic!!!  I was constantly afraid I would see someone I knew.   No more rushing to get home so I could smoke in the dark cold smelly garage and "enjoy" (not) my smoke in peace.  
Nobody has called me "sir" on the phone--for the past year and a half 
Nobody has called me "sir" on the phone--for the past year and a halfLol...that made be laugh. I have just to do my Bonnie Tyler number on our karaoke nights...betting I will now be pants, just ain't got the voice anymore...lol...
I am a person that laughs a lot... it's awesome to laugh without starting to cough up a lung 5 seconds later :)
Hahaha....watched a girl light a cigarette outside the restaurant I was leaving.I think she was using one of those cheepie imitation bic lighters....the flame went so big she singed her bangs. So glad that will never be me again. :)
No more lighting the filter end by mistake...GAWD that would taste horrible
That was the worst Jengelsnew! God, I remember that taste... gag. When I used to smoke in a car or vehicle of any kind, we'd throw the ashes into a water bottle or can.  No more accidentally drinking from that bottle/can!  GAG. 
I will get to spend more time with my children. And they won't have to change my diaper cause I've had a debilitating heart attack or a stroke.   Don't misunderstand me.....I'm still gonna make em change my diaper.  But because I'm mean like that. Not because I decided to kill myself slowly.
noe more coughing.
Benefits after Five years ?     Continued improvements in breathing and skin tone, taste and scent also, heart and circulation. My flu or colds do not degenerate into bronchitis.  I have no cough.        I never think about smoking anymore.    I may have a vague memory,  'oh, I used to smoke during moments like this'      but, this is without temptation or desire.      As the years go by, I am prouder and prouder of myself for dealing successfully with my nicotine addiction  and have greater compassion for those still in the throes of addiction.  Edited February 11 by Sazerac
Here are another 2 pages on Unexpected Benefits of Quitting Smoking
     
    bump
I've been successfully quit for well over 7 years and it's safe to say I am very  good. I will never smoke again, I have no desire to, no cravings or no active thoughts about it.      Every now and then I still have dreams where I smoke. I always feel really guilty about blowing my quit during the dream after I've already smoked. Or sometimes I'm confused as to why am I holding this lit cigarette in my hand. These dreams are usually followed by an extreme state of panic/confusion upon waking up about whether I've a) messed up my quit and smoked b) ever actually been quit for this long or if it's all a sham       I'm always extremely relieved when my brain catches up and I realise it was just a dream and I've actually not smoked in all this time. This probably tells me how I'd feel if I relapsed.
    This quit is too fresh for smokers dreams. But I do recognise it from my last quit a few years back. I was on a dutch forum and I dreamed my whole group was lighting cigarettes and I was frantically trying to get rid of the cigarettes. Pleading and trying to convince them not to smoke.  I have never met the ppl in real life, but somehow my mind had put faces to the nicknames.  I also had those dreams where I was lighting a cigarette and after that waking up in complete panic that I threw away my quit.  So yeah I can relate 
Yes,  i have had dreams before about smoking cigarettes , i was feeling really bad about it and then i woke up and was happy to know that it was just a dream . I read an article few days ago and it says that people sleeping under cold conditions  have the chances of nightmares than people sleeping under warm conditions .  They even say that people having a deep sleep under warm conditions could see more better dreams .Edited October 10 by Sunshine59
6 minutes ago, Vivianne said:               This quit is too fresh for smokers dreams. But I do recognise it from my last quit a few years back. I was on a dutch forum and I dreamed my whole group was lighting cigarettes and I was frantically trying to get rid of the cigarettes. Pleading and trying to convince them not to smoke.  I have never met the ppl in real life, but somehow my mind had put faces to the nicknames.          I also had those dreams where I was lighting a cigarette and after that waking up in complete panic that I threw away my quit.          So yeah I can relate        I had these dreams from the start. They are less frequent now for sure but they still do happen after all this time. Even at the start I was always relieved when I woke up that I hadn't really smoked and I remember being annoyed and confused at myself for smoking in the dream in the first place.        Goes to show how strong the addiction is when even now I sometimes have these dreams and I'm far along in my quit.
    I've had those dreams from time to time as well. They don't really bother me. I guess it's because it was only a dream and not real life. I imagine we'll probably have these from time to time for the rest of our lives just as I suspect I'll get an occasional crave for the rest of my life too.
2 minutes ago, jillar said:             I've had those dreams from time to time as well. They don't really bother me. I guess it's because it was only a dream and not real life. I imagine we'll probably have these from time to time for the rest of our lives just as I suspect I'll get an occasional crave for the rest of my life too.               Yeah for sure, luckily just a dream! For me they feel very real at the time when they happen and I'm always confused for a while upon waking up as to whether I've really smoked or not. Always great to realise it was only a dream!
    Yes.  Weird is it not?  I can’t remember dreaming about smoking when I was a smoker, or, maybe I did but didn’t classify it as an important part to remember because it was normal for me to smoke.     Now as a non-smoker it is NOT normal for me to be smoking, so, I have a guilt trip in the dream and always remember when I wake up
    I've not had a smoking dream.  Is it just the act itself or do you get the taste and smell too.          
5 minutes ago, Lilly said:                Is it just the act itself or do you get the taste and smell too.                                                      Personally I've never been able to taste or smell anything in a dream. Which considering some of the dreams I've had is a good thing!
    From our friend, Joel Spitzer    Dreams of Smoking
Surviving The Great Smoke Free Fog      Some people experience a mental fog soon after they quit smoking, others don't. It can last from a few hours to a few weeks or longer.  My fog wasn't consistent, showing  up unannounced and somewhat dismaying.   Who am I kidding ?  It was disarming and seemed impenetrable.   I couldn't have made thoughtful decisions and was glad they weren't necessary.      My fog lasted over a month and lingered far too long.   Not what you want to hear, I know,  but remember, this was only my experience.  Everyone's quit is unique, much has to do with attitude, general wellness, behavior/lifestyle, nutrition... Keep some tricks in your tool box to help you, just in case, and keep your blood sugar up.      Antidotes ?     forced walks, cold air, intentional breathing, too much coffee,     'embracing the suck', attention to my blood sugar,  alerting people that might be affected, not stressing out about it...understanding that it will pass.       Duration and Density ?  On a scale, (10) drastically impaired to (0) normal.        -For three days, with OTC help and Whisky,  I  flirted with informal catatonia   (10)       -For two weeks, I had little concentration, I wasn't making executive decisions or problem solving  (7)         -At four weeks, I slowly wakened to lethargy (3) and indolence (2.5)        -It tapered off so  s l o w l y,  it was hard to mark but, that could have been my inattentiveness. pfftt.           Have you experienced The Great Smoke Free Fog ? What helped you ? How dense was it ? When did it clear ?       Enjoy this lovely short film and listen to Sounding the Sumburgh Foghorn in The Shetlands.   Edited May 4, 2018 by Sazerac
    I'm still in the fog myself.  Thank you for sharing - I'm intrigued by informal catatonia.  Preferred poison would be wine, but the numbing outcome would be the same.  
    Mine was about like what you describe Saz! It was by far and away the most debilitating and longest lasting quit symptom I experienced. I felt pretty much useless for a month or more 
53 minutes ago, TravellingSunny said:               I'm still in the fog myself.  Thank you for sharing - I'm intrigued by informal catatonia.  Preferred poison would be wine, but the numbing outcome would be the same.          'informal catatonia' was just word salad,  Sunny, though you made it sound like a delicious cocktail, informally of course !    I used  'informal' to differentiate between a true medical catatonic state ( inability to move and lack of response to stimuli) and to signify that I just felt catatonically inclined but, was able to move and respond (albeit slothfully)                13 minutes ago, reciprocity said:               Mine was about like what you describe Saz! It was by far and away the most debilitating and longest lasting quit symptom I experienced. I felt pretty much useless for a month or more      I'm glad to hear it, reci.  Well, not 'glad' exactly but, you know what I mean. "It was by far and away the most debilitating and longest lasting quit symptom I experienced. " yes yes yes.
2 minutes ago, Sazerac said:                                     ( inability to move and lack of response to stimuli)                               I call this ................. Saturday Night
1 hour ago, reciprocity said:               I call this ................. Saturday Night    (inability to move or react to stimuli)     I call this......my second husband. Oh, is that too harsh ?  Darn.Edited May 4, 2018 by Sazeracexchanged first husband for second husband for accuracy
The fog for me seemed to last for a long time. I'm certain it must have been improving bit by bit over the period, but I think marked improvement came around month three.      I may be being over dramatic, but that is how it has felt at least. I reckon I'm in a better place now than I was at the start of my quit. The slavery to the addiction had become pretty debilitating. I'm certain there is still more to come though. This makes me happy.        Whoops forgot about how it improved. I think the longer I've been able to go without thinking of a cigarette the better my concentration has got on other things. And the better my concentration has got on other things the longer I go without thinking about cigarettes. Win, win Edited May 5, 2018 by Sslip
Well Saz much of my fog was very similar to yours though I believe it only lasted, in a strong sense of the word, a little less than 3 weeks.  It took another couple of weeks to completely wave it off.  Luckily I am retired so it did not affect me in making decisions or working.  I do agree with you that it quite disarming, something that hit me hard at first and did not expect.
7 minutes ago, Sslip said:              The fog for me seemed to last for a long time. I'm certain it must have been improving bit by bit over the period, but I think marked improvement came around month three.                                      I may be being over dramatic, but that is how it has felt at least. I reckon I'm in a better place now than I was at the start of my quit. The slavery to the addiction had become pretty debilitating. I'm certain there is still more to come though. This makes me happy.                            Whoops forgot about how it improved. I think the longer I've been able to go without thinking of a cigarette the better my concentration has got on other things. And the better my concentration has got on other things the longer I go without thinking about cigarettes. Win, win       This is so right on Sslip !  It's hard for me to remember when or how it got better but, you completely nailed it.the longer I've been able to go without thinking of a cigarette the better my concentration has got on other things. And the better my concentration has got on other things the longer I go without thinking about cigarettes. Win, win
I got a double dip into the land of fog... when I initially quit that first 2 weeks was a nightmare... If I couldn't be doing a repetitive task at work that was the same thing over and over and didn't require independent thought I may as well not have been there... so many boring tasks I usually put off were done the first 2 weeks... then I oscillated between the fog and moments of lucidity as the thought of smoking took up less of my time... and then... my world got tilted on its axis, majorly, twice in the space of 2 days .... and I had to be strong and present and there for a lot of people who mean shit to me and I didn't have time to dwell in the fog, or think about having a smoke, I had big time shit to deal with and I just couldn't indulge the fog... I think subconsciously I was treading water furiously to hold my head above the frickin fog but it had to be done and it was... and I was back to normal (well my version of normal) most of the time... much less crazy random thoughts now than earlier in my quit (or maybe I'm just not sharing)... I mean who spends there spare time plotting their countries ascent to the world super power (although how awesome would the world be if Straya ran it)... ok back on track, talking about the fog... so my second dip into the land of fog came when I quit the NRT gum... that was a fun little time for us all wasn't it... mental breakdowns over, oh, just about everything... but the fog came back... and this time I was more prepared for it... and I had the awesome train gang to help out but I controlled the fog by focusing on things... if I could focus on swimming a cartoon shark around an imaginary ocean while I ate tourists and fish or if I could get into a quick flowing game of the answer is a question that went back and forth all (my) night or playing one of the silly A-Z games and trying to find the innocent sounding really rude things to post so I (and maybe a few others) knew what I was up too but no one else did.... or posting on a secret theme and wondering who else would pick up on it.... stupid, silly mindless games within games but it kept the fog minimised.... While the first week of the fog take two was probably more intense than the initial fog it was shorter lived and I saw the light much sooner and without any trauma to push it away. ...      Now the fog has cleared (get the occasional little showing for half an hour or so) for the most part and I am back, I can even multi task again... I nearly died when I realised I had lost that ability, totally shattered. But only on Friday at work was I updating spread sheets at the same time I was having a discussion on the phone with a customer and having a hand written note discussion with a co-worker about a third issue.... I am back people... I can now be crazy in three different ways simultaneously!      I do think Sslip nailed it though....the fog's impact on my life was definitely proportional to my frequency of think about the coffin nails.       I wish I had seen a post like this thread early in my quit when I thought I was going insane... SO ANY REAL NEW NEWBIES READING THIS don't let the fog scare you... there is nothing sinister in it, its not courtesy Stephen King... the fog wont hurt you.... and once you make your way out of the fog you will find yourself in the land of freedom, where the air is clear and you are the master of yourself once more.... walk through that fog, run through it or crawl, however you do it just make sure you do because it is so worth the journey... please keep on the path.  Edited May 5, 2018 by notsmokinjo
    Hmm, I think I’m still in a fog. Recently couldn’t concentrate at all!      in the first weeks of the quit i suffered from insomnia and this contributed to my state of mind(lessness) perhaps even more than lack of smoke. 
Yes i had the fog!!!        No-one really believed me about how bad it was but i seriously couldn’t think properly for a long time. I tried to avoid controversy, arguments or anything that required me to think something through rather than just lose my sh*t.      I actually still have it. It is less than 1,3,5 months ago but i still don’t think it completely gone. Moral to the story is try not to fight with me because im not quite the full quid yet. Edited May 7, 2018 by Giveintowin
1 hour ago, Giveintowin said:               Moral to th﻿e story is try not to ﻿fight wi﻿th me because im not quite the full quid yet.       I feel like those of us who are in hell or heck week should be required to wear this quote on tee shirts when we venture out in public.     Front and back.  LOL!
    For me, the patch has taken the edge off the fog so far - but i am still putting nicotine into my body/brain; wondering what I will experience when I go off the patch completely. 
5 hours ago, Giveintowin said:                                                      I actually still have it. It is less than 1,3,5 months ago but i still don’t think it completely gone. Moral to the story is try not to fight with me because im not quite the full quid yet.   I am irritable and prone to crying, better let’s not argue
3 hours ago, lml said:              For me, the patch has taken the edge off the fog so far - but i am still putting nicotine into my body/brain; wondering what I will experience when I go off the patch completely.              Everyone is going to be different, but the fog I had wasn't entirely down to nicotine. I know right from the outset when I was on NRT it was there and probably worse in those early days with NRT than when I fully came of nicotine.
On 5/4/2018 at 6:27 PM, Sslip said:             I think the longer I've been able to go without thinking of a cigarette the better my concentration has got on other things. And the better my concentration has got on other things the longer I go without thinking about cigarettes. Win, win        Useful observation, giving me hope that when the brain fog lifts it won't take such effort to distract myself from thinking about smoking and cigarettes.
    Just giving this a bump for @Tammy ... you might get something out of these posts as I think you are one of us that has to face the quit fog... Its gets better just stick it out chook and you'll be having an easier time soon.
Yes Tammy. It won't last forever even though it may seem so in early days. Lots of great stories here to help you understand how others have dealt with it. I always believed that part of the problem is that not only is your body adjusting to the lack of deadly chemicals you suck in through your lungs every 30-60 minutes of each day, your brain has so much more idle time once you've quit. Just think about all the time you spent not only smoking but the things around smoking. Smoking consumed a larger portion of your thought process each day than we realize. Suddenly .... all that's just gone - no longer there so now you have to fill that void. It just takes time. Be patient and it will happen.
    Ohhh this is a great thread! First three days of quitting,  Fulltime Fog. Not making sense whatsoever, almost felt drugged. I slept like a maniac, which contributed great deal to The Fog. After that, insomnia hit. Which... ofcourse... contributed to The Fog . Now Im back to normal sleeping patterns, but still dwelling in mysty lands. I try to be comfortable with it and not expect to much of myself (except for NOT lighting up ofcourse). I think I kinda suck at my job right now, but whatever. Things will be better and I'll Shine like never before!          
As you can see from the successful quits above, the fog is not permanent.   So, cut yourself some slack, be kind to yourself    and be careful with heavy machinery, playing with knives or,                Edited January 8 by Sazerac
Bump for @DizzyDEdited March 25 by Sazerac
    This is awesome. If only my brain fog would lift long enough to find the right words. Thank you @Sazerac
    Bump for @richard
    Bump for @Opah
    Bump into ??   What   I think it is starting to clear ?  maybe  a little !
I'd Rather Be A Little Overweight & Not Smoking Than Underweight & Dead!Video discusses the importance of not letting the chance of gaining weight being used as an excuse for not quitting smoking or for relapsing after having quit. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3I3fv5EqTBU
Ha! I kinda sorta needed this I lost my 20ish quit smoking pounds.....Then backslid....and put 15 back on Uggg  I forgot to shuffle daily. (The Doritos didn't help either)
thanks for the video mq. for some reason I lose weight over the winter holidays, and then put 10-15 back on in the spring. I can lose weight over the summer and fall but right now is not good... ^_^ did I mention I don't like my treadmill? I thought I remembered reading somewhere that they are bad for you too, all of that walking in one place and so on. pff
12 lbs. gained from quitting smoking. Um, probably the Doritos caused the weight gain. Not the smoking. Haven't lost it, either, though I have been exercising more than I ever did when I smoked. However. . .walking briskly 3-4 miles a day will take a couple hundred calories off my daily intake. While, a single serving bag of Nacho Cheese Doritos contains 262 calories. At this rate, I need to start walking about 10 miles per day or cut back on the Doritos. Yeah.
Totally agree!  For years and years I struggled with my weight...up 25, down 25....and the whole time I was smoking. When I would exercise as a smoker...I would get a headache so I would quit.  Wouldn't occur to me to quit smoking...lol...I quit the exercise instead. Finally, when I quit smoking...I did gain 35 lbs...but....what followed was a wonderful journey of completely taking responsibility for my total health and well being.  I know I would still be on that up and down roller coaster of dieting, dropping in and out of routinely exercising if I hadn't quit smoking FIRST..even if it meant I gained some weight temporarily.  It was worth it..and I would do it again..hands down. My attitude now is all about being healthy..period.  This does include staying smoke free..eating healthy..exercising every day...meditating every day...basically a holistic approach to my well being.
    Quit the killer addiction first ....sorry about the pounds later ...     
    Don't worry about the weight gain, you can normalise this later.        Cigarettes tend to speed up the metabolism (well, it is poison!) so it's common for that to slow down for a bit when you quit. This will normalise pretty quickly as long as you don't start eating more or replacing the cigs with snacks etc. I didn't replace it with anything so I gained no weight. I remember my metabolism taking a little knock back in the beginning but I just rode it out and all was back to normal in no time.         TBH, a little weight gain is MINOR compared to smoking god knows how many cigarettes a day.
Ugh okay so after 6/7 weeks smoke free I was surrounded by a fellow quitter who re-started smoking a few days back, I took several drags from her cigarette! However I dont have the crave to do more! I am however suffering with that consequence by coughing
Hi Axyz! Well we all know how those relapses are... and good for you that you are not going back to smoking! - but- make a plan, you don't want to fall into that same pit over and over again.. (which will guarantee a relapse)   Stay closer to the forum and commit!  Edited October 8 by Vivianne
    Sorry to hear you chose to smoke, Axyz. Even if you have a quit buddy, you need to make your quit all about YOU and not pay any mind to other people's failures or, be tempted by other smokers.    You are not missing anything...they are missing everything.     I am glad you decided to start again.   You can build yourself a successful quit    by learning more about nicotine addiction and internalizing the information.    NOPE means NOPE and Freedom is delicious.    
    Sorry you smoked and lost your previous quit ....   But good to hear you are back on track .... Learn by this ...so next time your more prepared ....   There will always be smokers ....you have to guard your quit ....it's your life .....   Re- read everything again ... specially Romancing the cig ....   
    Glad you're back on your quit Axyz, next time maybe try posting an SOS before you smoke so we can help you past it.
    Hop back on the no smoking Train.  Get back to it.  Glad those puffs didn’t reignite strong craves.  That was a big risk.  Play it safe & healthy.  Not one puff ever...
    Restart the whole process from the beginning once again .       Staying away from cigarettes will give you more satisfaction than smoking it in the long run .      I did a very detailed blood test yesterday because the doctor said so .     Thank lord , everything is normal .     I was very tensed until i got that result .     You do not want to go through that
    Sorry to hear you relapsed, but happy to hear you're not going to keep smoking and set a quit date for a week or so.        You messed up. We all have, it's not the end of the world.      Do it again and we're going to have to have a serious talk though. 
    start again tomorrow
7 hours ago, Axyz said:              I am however suffering with that consequence by coughing       Commit that cough and the feelings of regret to memory.  Those are the realities of smoking.        The pleasant memories of smoking created by the addicted mind are lies.  Even the lies we choose to accept as truth are still lies.     The realities of smoking are not the things from which pleasant memories are born.      Good job getting right back on the horse.  Ride on to freedom.
    Get right back aboard the Train! It's so important not to let a momentary lapse become full-blown addiction again. You had a few puffs. It was an unfortunate choice, but you learned from it. Now recommit to never taking a single puff again! You can do it.
Sometimes people relapse. You've done well to get right back on again but you know you will need to be extra careful now to keep your quit.  The brain is funny and will want to give in more easily having relapsed once.          I tried to build a system to not smoke by going into temptation on my own terms i.e. I would choose to go and stand with smoke buddies but it was a moment when I was prepared and knew ahead of time what I was going to do.  This helped me prepare for the unexpected triggers because I had built up an internal mechanism and routine to resist.       Not that it wasn't hard ... it just was something I could leverage.Edited October 8 by d2e8b8
On 10/8/2019 at 11:25 AM, Axyz said:                Ugh okay so after 6/7 weeks smoke free I was surrounded by a fellow quitter who re-started smoking a few days back, I took several drags from her cigarette! However I dont have the crave to do more! I am however suffering with that consequence by coughing         This is the danger of quit buddies ie they broke their quit and you then broke yours.       Good to see you back to quitting
    How are you now @Axyz?
What are some examples of thinking that should send up a red flag that somebody is romanticizing smoking?  As we know, relapse is always planned and usually starts with romancing the cigarette well before conscience choice to take a puff is made. Since I will always be a nicotine addict I must expect, detect and then reject any thoughts of romancing smoking because if I start to entertain those thoughts, the seed of relapse will be planted. Any thoughts that smoking somehow benefits you in any way is a red flag. If you think that it's too hard to stay quit is another good one.  It's harder to smoke and maintain the constant state of withdrawal than it is to break the addiction once and forever.
If I could just have a cigarette, I could calm down and figure this out...
.
My 'romancing' has evolved. It used to be about all of the things above.  Then it became an irrational want, even an ache. It was almost as though the junkie knew it could not win a rational argument, so tried something else. Still occasionally the image of sitting on a sunny terrace somewhere, overlooking the beach with a drink and a cigarette comes to mind as 'on holiday' and this appeals. All I then do is roll forward the day in my mind; stepping out of the romantic meal to get my fix. Using mouthwash to freshen my breath, being out of puff as I climb the stairs back to the room....these realities soon chase the picture away.
I always thought smoking would get me through all life's troubles...Allen Carr helped me look at this in a totally different light....I never considered my self a drug addict....I think all my romancing disappeared once this had sunk in....Also,watching someone spend 16 hours of everyday....hooked up to a oxygen machine...Takes all the romance away...when ever I think of a smoke now....I look in his direction.....it goes very quickly....Xxxxxx
After finishing a chore, sit down and relax with a smoke...
When I'm crisis, I think I need a cigarette to get me through but it only worsens the destructive thinking and IN FACT: I think later on NO I don't really enjoy smoking so why smoke?
I know in the past, whenever I started fixating on that one cigarette, I was in danger of relapse. Obsessing over that one cigarette that I can really remember making me "feel good" ...more than likely it was a moment where I had to go a long period of time without smoking...which is why it made me feel good...or during a night of drinking...that was always another. Again..another illusion. I feel good NOW..as a non smoker. As a matter of fact...I feel great. I don't drink...or if i do...it's rare these days. Nothing to romance. :) It was all an illusion....one big fat liar. Just me, myself, and I...and I love it that way. There is no substance on this earth that makes me feel good except good fuel and exercise...proper sleep...and a healthy, positive attitude. That's it in a nutshell. The unhealthy romance between me and big bad tobacco is OVER. My blinders are off and tossed in the trash.
ANY thought you may have that doesn't immediately  represent smoking as an Addictive Deadly Poison  ( that will enslave you within puffs)                                    is                A Big Fat Lie. Save your Romance for LOVE. (edited to add) Once I educated myself, the romance for nicotine was dead Dead D E A D.
As we all know I romanced the cigarette at around my 7 month quit, and to me, it was a small thought in the back of my head that I allowed to grow, and the more it grew the more it was all I could think about 24/7, thinking just one, just to see, I was testing myself, telling myself that I missed the cigarette, that I missed smoking, I deliberately put myself with someone who smoked who I knew would offer me one, without me actually asking for one, so then I could lay the blame at someone else's door.  The addiction took me back.  As soon as that thought appears show it the door,  NO is all it takes, xxx
Jackie...This was a brilliant honest post....it was a great reminder....thank you sweetheart....
My experience is much the same as Jackie's. I quit more than 7 months ago. I frequently want a cigarette-- I think about it every day. But then I quickly chase that thought from my head and go on about my life. The "thought" never rises to the level of a "crave" and does not pose a danger. For me, the danger comes in when I start obsessing about a cigarette. I start thinking about it and wanting it and I can't seem to shake the thought. It keeps plaguing me hour after hour, day after day until it wears me down. I don't WANT to smoke, but I can't stand this corrosive, constant fantasizing about cigarettes. That is why I relapsed (in the past, that is)-- I was trying to quiet that voice.   Now when I start to obsess about smoking, I have learned to ask myself what is bothering me in my life and why? Why am I feeling tense or anxious or bored or tired? When I have identified what I am feeling and why, then I take steps to dissipate those feelings. Perhaps exercise (which is good for whatever ails you) or more sleep or meditation or call a friend or something. Basically, my brain is used to using cigarettes to deal with any distressing emotion so that I don't actually have to deal with things. Now I know that I have to take conscious, active steps to resolve my problems and then my cigarette obsession magically stops.
After a while, you think you are super solid in your quit and then think, "well I can smoke socially.  It doesn't mean I'll start smoking all the time again."  WRONG!  As a nicotine addict, just that one puff, just one will send you back into a world of jonesing for a smoke every 30-45 minutes or so.  You cannot smoke EVER.  If a crave hits, accept it for what it is, tell it to go away, and move on.  Done.  Think about how much better you feel without a cigarette.  Instead of romancing the cigarette, see it as Death came a callin.
There is no such thing as ...I'll just have one.......If I could just have one.....I wouldn't be here.......I am a addict.....Not one puff ever.....it's the only way.........why risk it......
I knew I had COMPLETELY banished any thoughts of smoking again when I pulled my winter coat out, put it on (it reeked of stale smoke even though it had been to the dry cleaners) and I found a lighter in my pocket. The only feeling I had was a twinge of sadness for that girl who was addicted. The girl who stood outside in snowstorms to get her fix. The girl who almost had a seizure if she couldn't find a lighter. The coat got donated to charity. The lighter got thrown in the junk drawer for the bbq. And I ordered a new Canada Goose coat! :) 
Great story, Julie. I think you were smart to donate that coat to charity. And hey, some of that $3,252 you saved on cigarettes should absolutely go for a new Canada Goose coat. Clean, warm and patriotic all at once!  :)
I am now; for the times I smoked with my ex-gf... she's coming over!I realise I'm strong in my quit
I never doubted it for a second....Your a strong cookie ....Hugs xx
Bump  :)
    bumpity bump
Oh my Goodness there is the me of the past almost 4 years ago, I could cry I could have been 4 years nearly quit by now if I hadn't let the addiction take over again. Really needed to see this. Here I am at the start again, I shall keep referring back to this when that addiction starts calling again, just to remind myself that I don't want to be writing a similar post like this in 4 years time! No more groundhog day! xx
    Thinking that nothing tastes better than coffee with a cigarette. That cigarettes are always there for me. That they make me look like a badass diva. Smoker-me used to be so stupid. 
In truth, there is NOTHING  smoking can offer you other than a statistically probable ugly and painful death for you and the terror for your family witnessing your demise.Check this out alsoRed FlagsEdited October 17, 2018 by Sazerac
    Bump this forward ...hope it helps some folk ...
On 10/17/2018 at 11:10 AM, Sazerac said:    In truth, there is NOTHING  smoking can offer you other than a statistically probable ugly and painful death for you and the terror for your family witnessing your demise.Check this out alsoRed Flags
    Check this thread out also,Red Flags
I need to read this topic as many times as needed. I am guilty of romancing the cigarette.. and on day 3 hanging on for dear life. My addiction is acting like a rebelious teen and giving me a hundered ways on how to sneak in a cig... or where to buy it, how to hide it from everyone here (I can't and won't , I am a lousy liar..  1 lie will keep me up for nights... ). My addiction is lying to me - telling me it won't happen to me, I won't  get sick... I am invincible, I am not a heavy smoker... so...     So many thoughts running through my mind... can't keep up with them
    We all ran on the lies of nicotine addiction, V.    My biggest one was, 'I really love smoking' which teamed up so well with my complete denial over health issues.     As the truth about addiction emerges, we gain the power to defeat it.   Nurture yourself and your strengths.    You don't smoke anymore !  That is the truth to run with now.       The inner power, self confidence and trust in yourself grows exponentially with every crave you conquer, every trigger you dismiss. You are winning.        Do not let smoky thoughts sit in your brain and fester. Banish them, replace them with thoughts of beauty immediately.   
You are so right @Sazerac       I romanced the cigarette for nearly 40 years.  The power of addiction is really frightening. The biggest obstacle with quitting in the early days is getting far enough away from the addiction to see it for what it really is.        I do struggle from time to time but I know for a fact that is just the addiction trying to get it's hooks into me again.        I learnt three really important lessons here.       1 - take smoking of the table. Do anything else but don't make smoking an option        2 - giving smoking any positive thoughts is nothing more than junkie thinking       3 - keeping the quit you have can sometimes feel like hard work but it's easier to keep the quit you have than start another one
Hello!      I just created a profile for this site. I am a 31 year-old man, and have been a chain smoker since age 23 or 24. I recently attempted to quit nicotine cold turkey. I made it 3 and a half days, then bought a pack and started up again. I have tried nicotine gum in the past, and have found it unsuccessful for me. I am very interested in quitting cold turkey.       My intention is to attempt a quit again within the next week or so. I think where I stumbled with my most recent attempt was in not having a clear timeline, as far as moving past the most intense physical withdrawal symptoms. I've heard varying accounts of the timeline - some say it gets easier after day 3, day 5, one week, etc. I know that the physical withdrawal symptoms eventually go away - but I need to be fully prepared for however my own body adjusts. Patience will be key.     I desperately want this year to be the year I quit smoking for good. If anyone out there has input about their own smoking histories, and how it affected the length of time of withdrawal, I would very much like to hear about it. Thank you.
Its not the length of time you smoke for that counts. You need to realise its a nicotine addiction you suffer from. You will always be an addict and your brain will always to a greater or lesser degree try to persuade you to smoke.     The only way to stop is to realise this and decide you will never take another puff.        The worst symptoms last 3 days once you achieve this they will reduce gradually over the weeks months years.        Once you decide never to smoke again you will be mostly there.
Welcome to our jolly band of quitters, Christian.       The most important component to a successful quit is Education about nicotine addiction.    You must read, read, read and absorb the information.       This makes your quit easier too, because you understand what you are going through.  Everything makes sense.    So, take the time and educate yourself.     Quitting is a matter of initially, short term physical withdrawals. The real work comes in changing our patterns, re-programming our reward system, and learning to live FREE.  All this is a highly individual matter but, in general it takes about a year to weed through all the craves and seasonal triggers.      This isn't a year of full on craziness...just a year of consistently paying close attention to a commitment to NOPE (Not One Puff Ever).    Once you understand addiction, this makes perfect sense.  We must always stay committed to NOPE.        I am a cold turkey quitter.  I didn't want to prolong my suffering and didn't want to spend any more ducats on nicotine.    Stock up on fruit juices and small rewards.     You may find this post (and the many links embedded) helpful to you.10 Ways To Effectively Use This Forum To Help Yourself Quit Smoking I smoked for 40 something years.  Addiction is addiction, nobody is more addicted than anyone else...or less addicted either.       There is no reason to continue to smoke, Christian. Once you make the decision...GO FOR IT !    You will never regret quitting and your whole life will change for the better.  S
    and a great page of resources from our friend, Joel Spitzer  What Withdrawals Should I Expect From Quitting Smoking
Sadly there ya no hard and fast rule...as the others have said accepting you are a nicotine addict and learning how this addiction works are the keys. I very much just took it as 1 day at a time. I only ever worried about not smoking for the single day.       So the way my addiction works is that the habit and the emotional addiction was stronger than the physical addiction. I needed to break those to feel comfortable in my quit. So this time I used NRT gum and it helped get me passed the hurdle...do I wish I had quit cold turkey, sure, but it wasn't my reality.        What I can tell you is cold turkey, hypnosis, Champix, NRT there are no short cuts...you have to go through the hairy days to get up those hay days.        Biggest tips....    1. Only quit for one day at a time, don't worry about tomorrow, just focus on today. 24 little hours.   2. Keep you fluids and blood sugars up...drink juice, it Kilda two birds with one stone.    3. Learn, learn, learn....how the addiction works, what it has done to your brain.  4. Have some placebos, hard lollies (sweets/candies) to suck on, normal gum to chew, mints to suck, a pen to "fake" smoke.      Anyone can quit, including you, it doesn't take a miracle, or a super power Nd definately not luck....all it takes is promising yourself never to put anything in your mouth and set it on fire and smoke it and fighting to keep that promise. That's it.Edited October 7 by notsmokinjo
Treat your brain as a separate entity . It always needs smoke , it will be always asking for a smoke  to fulfill its strange needs  . In my humble opinion  its so used to that firing      And start fighting with your brain .        Every time you crave for a smoke , just remember it is the brain that needs the smoke and not you .     Life is going to be really dull in the first 2 weeks , that will slowly change , you will feel more and more fresh as time passes by .
As you put your nicotine addiction to sleep, your brain re-wires itself,        of course, it can be instantly re-activated which is why NOPE (Not One Puff Ever) is so important to internalize        but, once you start retraining your brain, your thoughts and reward system  become your own again and not the addictions.       Your brain will not always be actively asking/demanding nicotine,   you can awaken it and must stay somewhat vigilant   but, it leaves your conscious mind after a while.   You won't be thinking about smoking or nicotine every 20 minutes like you did when you smoked and also when you first quit.
    You have received a lot of great information Christian! Make your mind up to quit no matter what comes your way. As others have said, there's the physical withdrawal  which doesn't last all that long (a few days of really strong carvings at times) but then there's adjusting your lifestyle to no longer include smoking. That's what takes a lot of patience and time. There will be triggers that make you think; "Hey! I should be having a smoke." because that's what you have done for years and years but now, smoking is completely off the table for you so learn new rewards to give yourself - not a smoke anymore. Quitting is a marathon, not a sprint. Stay firm to your commitment and be patient. It will happen if you follow the process - just NOPE! (Not One Puff Ever)
    Welcome Christian and congratulations on deciding to quit. For me the first three days were actually the easiest. I still had nicotine in my system but come that fourth day and I started to struggle. But since I was determined to succeed I stuck close to home and only ventured out when my never smoker husband could go with me because I didn't trust myself to not stop and buy a pack.   It wasn't until I found a forum with others who also gave up this nasty addiction that I started feeling better and more confident in my being able to do this. Being a part of a group who knows what you're going through and supports you are key. At least for me and hopefully you'll find the same true for you.  Everyone's quit is different but the same. We all have to go through the misery, some worse than others. Having the right mindset and your young age on your side will help a bunch 
    Welcome Christian you are making a great choice in quitting.  Those above have already given great advice.  The physical withdrawals only last a few days and are a pain to get thru but can be done with focus and commitment (and some cold water and deep breathing techniques).  The work comes after that in re-educating yourself on living a smoke free life and getting thru the craves. Coming here and going thru the site can help with that be it education, asking for advice, or just socializing -- it really can help.  Keep strong, this can be done!!!!
8 hours ago, Christian Ferguson said:               My intention is to attempt a quit again within the next week or so.                                 If you're "attempting" something, that means there is a chance of failure. You need to change your mindset. Either you smoke or you don't smoke. If you quit, you've made a decision to not smoke anymore.      If you were getting married, you wouldn't say "I'll attempt to stay faithful" to your wife, would you? I would hope not.        If you're committed to never smoke again, you won't smoke again. It really is that simple.
    Welcome aboard..    Everyone is different ....your quit will be different ..... My advice ....why wait ...why put more nicotine in your body ,just to get rid of it ,a little later...  Our brains can be our worst enemies.... Quitting is easier than thinking and fretting over it ...   Think positive not negative.... I went cold turkey...having the threat of losing both my feet due to smoking ,was all it took for me ...    Take smoking off the table ...no matter what ...    Of course your body will be a bit topsy turvy ...you've been feeding it poisons for decades ... Just take your seat...and probably save your life ..
    Being here and interacting is a good start. I was welcomed here when I was still smoking and it made me desperate to be a quitter like everyone else. Stick around and post lots.       I did jillars thing of not smoking in my regular places. It meant I was breaking a lot of associations before my quit even started which helped ease the bigger triggers.       I also found my own thinking affected my quit. If I went around like a miserable I miss smoking mess my quit was hard. If I oozed happiness at being quit it was just so much easier.       Planning is the easiest part. It's simple to say I'm going to quit while you're still smoking. As your quit gets nearer you start thinking up reasons why you should put off the date. The deadline you'll never meet if you're not smoking, the party you've agreed to go to etc etc etc. Quit and stick with it.      You'll find lots of support here so use it.     Good Luck 
Members2,422 posts      quitdate:           9-24-12LocationOwn WorldPosted 24 September 2012 - 03:27 PMQuit now. Actually about an hour ago I had last. Woke up this morning and said today is the day. Thought about it for a week, here and there "ought to quit again." Been sucessful for a year a few times, two years one time. Pulled out Chantax I tried a few years ago this morning. Didnt like the dreams last time and quit taking it. It worked for a few weeks then had the puff. Pills expired last year, what the hell I will take one anyways. Found the board about an hour ago and started reading. Haven't decided if I am calling doctor for another prescription or going cold turkey. Been reading the craving stuff, and after an hour I am getting hungry, so off for a Subway for a treat of making it an hour.
And the rest is.... History 
page 1- try to copy/paste. thanks Elton, thought first post should stand alone.   Posted 25 September 2012 - 09:33 AMDay 2. Made it so far. This morning was toughest part. Did it minute at time. Where is all the encouragement? Didnt say anything to anyone yet. See if anyone notices.   #3  jen Posted 25 September 2012 - 09:39 AMHi congrats on your quit I wouldnt take pills if they were out of date myself but hey, anyway just be strong and you will get through the first three days it does get better, make sure you drink plenty of water help flush the nicotine out of your system    #4  iajdani Posted 25 September 2012 - 09:42 AMGreat going.Expect these for day 2,3,4Headache, craving, drowsiness. But it all will ease up on 5th day. Keep it up. #5  PilgrimUKPosted 25 September 2012 - 09:53 AMWelcome bakon. I would always advice the cold turkey route.72 hours, everything is out the system.Anything after that point is psychological triggers.You can reduce a lot of symptoms such as lack of concentration/focus and headaches by drinking fruit juices and cutting Tea/Coffee consumption in half.Click any of my signature links for some great reading about giving up. #6  soul Posted 25 September 2012 - 10:10 AMbakon, welcome to the forum!!!By now you have noticed that a craving will not kill you................smoking will though............I suggest you continue to read up in the newbie package in here and whatever info you get about quitting tips and more importantly about STAYING quit.................you have been that road before and have learned from your mistakes.......the key is to change your strategy, be prepared, have a plan B for all your routines, brace yourself and jump, we will catch you!Quit for yourself but not by yourself!  #7  bakon Posted 25 September 2012 - 10:28 AMThanks for help. Not a coffee drinker. Tea at times but like it cold and lemonade is just as good. Cold turkey seems to work best for me. Patches prolong quit. Get my mind wrapped on no more, and that is the way it is. Like the little counter, lets me know I earned something. Watching your counters is helpful too. No problems so far, son in hospital with broken hand. Getting surgery now, so just sitting around watching people walk by carrying their oxygen. Easy.thanks again #8   babs609  Posted 25 September 2012 - 10:30 AMGo Bakon!!!! You can do this..one craving at a time. Stick close to the board and read, read, read!!! Helps more than I can stress to you.Deep breathing has also gotten me through tooSmoking is not an option   #9  soul Posted 25 September 2012 - 10:33 AMah, where the kids take us!!  He will probably recover very well, kids tend to.............i work in physical therapy and have witnessed such incredible recoveries with kids............Remember to use breathing if you feel cravings creep in...............nice slow breathing in and out............Stay close, read and post...........Cold turkey seems to work extremely well for countless people  From your words i can sense that you are determined and happy to take this step into a new life style! #10  4mylife Posted 25 September 2012 - 11:32 AMHello Bakon!!!It looks like you have been giving some great advice from the others here..I want to welcome you and say that it looks like you are really doing amazing!!!!!!Water, deep breaths and walking my dogs have got me through some really tough times.Reading here got me to my quit, and pretty much keeps me sane Again welcome and I hope all goes well with your son, keep us updated.. #11  TimidTulipPosted 25 September 2012 - 12:20 PMWelcome aboard the board!Just stick with it, just remember we have all quit and we wouldn't have been able to if it stayed feeling as bad as those first few days - things WILL improve!    #12  thebean Bakon, that little counter helps me too! I am rooting for you! Keep going, you can do it!  #13  bakon Posted 25 September 2012 - 04:09 PMNo big cravings yet. Keeping blood sugar up. Son is 25, Afghanistan veterarn Marine with purple heart. He broke his hand riding a quad. Still lives at home because he is in tech school.Been reading other posts. Walked outside and my nose is already working again. Could smell smoke 50 yards away. Also smell some good food cooking.   #14  thebeanPosted 25 September 2012 - 06:43 PMwow, lucky! I still don't have a full sense of smell yet.. enjoy that!!!! Keep going.. every hour adds up.. you'll be amazed.  #15  bakon Posted 25 September 2012 - 08:39 PMsoul,just saw Mars PA. In Pittsburgh. Drove to Mars twice a month for last 20 years. Really Zelianople but close enough.Bed time. Made it all day. Wife noticed and had my largest craving talking about what I read and learned here.No more talking about it. #16  mark1976Posted 25 September 2012 - 08:52 PMWelcome Bakon!!! Seems like u are having an easy time so far but you know how easy it is to go back. From this point on your view on smoking should be the same as all of us here. NOPE.  #17  bakon Posted 26 September 2012 - 01:10 PMDay 3 is hitting like a train. Hardest and most intense cravings so far. NOPE is working and I am holding strong. Easy to slip here for one puff on old attempts. Feel better after reading in here. Like walking out of the theater after seeing a Rocky movie. I can do it attitude.   #18  marciemPosted 26 September 2012 - 01:16 PMbakon saidDay 3 is hitting like a train. Hardest and most intense cravings so far. NOPE is working and I am holding strong. Easy to slip here for one puff on old attempts. Feel better after reading in here. Like walking out of the theater after seeing a Rocky movie. I can do it attitude.keep strong, bakon!! This road is an uneven one, meaning that there are smooth times and rocky times. Hold on to the smooth times in your heart!! The bumpy ones too...they will remind you why you never ever want to be on this road again in your lifetime. The only way to avoid this road in the future is to stay on it NOW!! Straight ahead, don't look back, sure as hell don't GO back!!  #19  JTPhillyPosted 26 September 2012 - 01:27 PMsounds like you are doing great bacon - make sure you have a snack and stay hydrated - punch something if you need too - all that you are feeling is your body throwing off it's dependance - it can be rough bit it does get better - remember you don't want to do this again? right? #20  bakonPosted 26 September 2012 - 01:31 PMHanging in there. Thanks everyone.
Wow...congrats....2years....Thanks for sticking around  and makin me laugh........nice work...    Doorbell xx
Thanks Doorbell.  #21  soul Posted 26 September 2012 - 06:24 PMstay close.........keep reading and posting! #22  bakon Made it to 4. Ok today. One big thought of giving up but went away after some pushing. Morning going smooth. Little reading helps put the mind in right place to do this. #23  iajdaniPosted 27 September 2012 - 10:18 AMHang in there. This is the toughest day. Things will start easing up from tomorrow. #24  PilgrimUK Posted 27 September 2012 - 10:23 AMWell done.Day 4 is the golden day in quitting.All the nicotine is now out your system. The body can now get on with its job of Recovery & repair.All triggers from now on are psychological or associational craves (after meals, out with mates...etc) #25  bakonPosted 27 September 2012 - 10:25 AMOK. Take your word for it. Think I have failed 1000 times on day four. But didnt have a place to post or read about it then. Feel testy, dont want to let the anger bug pop off but he is right there under the surface. #26  PilgrimUKPosted 27 September 2012 - 10:42 AMBut could that simply be "reference stress"You have said you failed before at 4 days and that is in your mind, you don't want it happening yet again?It sounds like it.Sound like a little tension of wanting it to succeed.If you dwell on it, you might give yourself problems.Just get on and do something: read; clean; go for a walk...etc. #27  bakon Posted 27 September 2012 - 01:28 PMTook a walk in rain with dogs. Planning evening meal and just killing time. Day off, so pretty bored and trying to break old habits associated with smoking. No big problems, minor irritations is all. Sticking with NOPE and pushing through. I will make it, smell is coming back pretty good. Thanks everyone #28   babs609  Posted 27 September 2012 - 01:44 PMbakon...you are right where you need to be. Yes....annoying at times...but, doable. Pretty much how life is sometimes, right? Fabulous, annoying, and doable...all wrapped into one Congrats!!  #29  BAH Posted 27 September 2012 - 02:43 PMYes you will...keep it up....be VERY very proud of yourselfI will make it #30  bakon Posted 28 September 2012 - 09:44 AMDay 5. Moving along. Its in the back of my head but easier than first 8 hours. Must be lightening up. Going back to work today. Smoked alot there but not worried. Will keep myself busy so it wont be missed. Keeping NOPE in my thoughts. Also like the signature which says One Puff from a Pack a Day. So true.  #31  bakon Posted 29 September 2012 - 05:49 PMDay 6. Going good. Smell is amazing. Bored at times I used to smoke. Keeping busy.  #32  soul Posted 29 September 2012 - 05:52 PMgreat news There is nothing wrong with being bored.........at times, we find ourself ! We are not such bad company after all............ #33  kickitorfcckit good job, bakon #34  bakonPosted 30 September 2012 - 04:09 PMDay 7 No smoke- irritated most of day.Didnt start work till 3pm, got up 8am, raining, cold out, just one of those sit around do nothing days until I had to leave. Just edgy. Not ready to flip out but not calm and relaxed. I know the "3 days its out of your system", but the brain is more powerful and needs shoved in right direction.Dont plan on smoking, but dont want to be in a bad mood for no reason. #35  Guest__* Posted 30 September 2012 - 04:57 PMThree days and the nicotine is physically out of your system, but the mental aspect is even more challenging. Just keep making smoking not an option and you will do just fine  . And remember, we all had bad days, even for no reason, when we were smokers too. Hang in there, it's worth it! #36  soul Posted 30 September 2012 - 05:35 PMall a mind game now................have a plan, a strategy and keep surprising your "adversary"..........  #37  bakon Posted 30 September 2012 - 07:01 PMMind game is right. Actually smelled someone smoking and it stinks to me. Got to break some of those subconsciuos triggers. Went back and did some reading, thanks everyone. Again not an SOS, just working through it. #38  freshyoselfPosted 01 October 2012 - 02:38 AMBakon! #39  bakon Posted 01 October 2012 - 05:29 PMDay 8. Going smooth. Learning to relax and enjoy whatever is going on. Thinking the smokes were causing me to rush things to get to next one. Spending time in garage before work, where I did all my smokiing at home. Didnt have an urge. Washed bike and still no urge. Site is great for telling what to expect and how to retrain my sub conscious to enjoy not smoking.I dont even like typing the word right now. Like its a swear or something shameful.Anyways just checking in. All good today and easing up. #40  bakon Posted 02 October 2012 - 11:44 AMDay 9-Still here smoke free. Reading others fight on this. The group is great for support. Nice work everyone.
Starting nowStarted by bakon, Sep 24 2012 11:27 AM #41  soulPosted 02 October 2012 - 11:54 AMnice work to you too Bakon!Keep on moving forward and you will discover deeper levels of Freedom you did not even suspect existed...... #42  bakon Posted 03 October 2012 - 08:13 PMDay 10- Another day done. Sleeping longer than in past. Was a 7 hour a night person. This week I am 8 to 9 hours a night. More dreams too.No complaints.#43  bakon Posted 05 October 2012 - 01:21 PMDay 12 - I did first night out with guys at our regular smokey bar. Made it three hours and no smoking. Thought this would be a hard test...thought about having one...thoughts pass and smell was overwelming. Watched the other smokers, 20 minutes fire another one. 20 minutes another.. looked like an addiction now. Felt bad for them, didnt want to be preachy and say anything though. Got to learn on thier own. Had headache from the place.Well I believe that was my first real hard, true test. Kept NOPE in mind. Didnt want to reset my counter or wake up thinking I was ok with only one after all that time. I earned my quit.SO got past a milestone for me. Now looking for the 2 week mark. #44  JTPhilly Posted 05 October 2012 - 01:28 PMfeels good right bacon? I thought it would be hard to maintain my quit and my social life but I #45  dls46711 Posted 05 October 2012 - 01:32 PMWhat an awesome job! I remember the first time out in a smoky place after i quit. Staring at everyone smoking. Glad you saw it in the negative way! Congrats. You are doing everything right! #46  bakon Posted 06 October 2012 - 05:50 PMDay 13 Made first night working 11-7. Midnight shift was for smoking. Lots of dead time. Nothing much to do passing the time.Didnt miss it at all. NOPE and moving on. Thanks again everyone. Couple hours and it will be two weeks.#47  avian3Posted 06 October 2012 - 06:12 PMGood for you! Boredom was always a trigger for me. Eventually, like me, you can be really bored and the thought of smoking will never enter your mind. #48   babs609 Posted 06 October 2012 - 10:32 PMdoing great Bakon..keep it up  #49  bakon Posted 08 October 2012 - 01:13 AMMade it two weeks. Feel good. I would not call it a crave, but a thought will pop up now and then. I dont act on it and certainly going to keep with NOPE. It has got easier, but hoping it gets even easier. Breaking the old habits of smoking with an activity is tough too. Just have to do them and realize a glass of water or whatever is all that is there now. Thanks for all the help everyone.#50  youngster513Posted 08 October 2012 - 01:16 AMCongrats Bakon! It looks like me and you started about the same time but just hours apart. Keep it up bud! #51  sheilasdadPosted 08 October 2012 - 08:37 AMGo Bakon! You are my role model! #52  sparklingPosted 08 October 2012 - 08:47 AMCongratulations and well done for making a wise choice, you are doing it, just keep at it and never go back no matter what. #53  christine1960Posted 08 October 2012 - 12:43 PMBakon,Great job. I love the daily updates and I think it is so helpful to other newbies to follow your journey and see how you deal with cravings and temptations. Keep that quit looking great! #54  bakon Posted 09 October 2012 - 01:41 AMSomeone called me their Role Model. WOW. Guy didnt smoke for 12 years and he is watching me.And another is only a few hours ahead of me on their quit. Kind of like quiting with a buddy. Glad I didnt have youngsters cost of smokes though. I was paying about $55 for a carton and his money saved is higher than mine.Years ago I would buy a pack a day. Thinking if I quit overnight, I wouldnt waste any money or smokes. That was my thinking, I would just wake up and quit. Everyday back to store.Well I did quit..... but finding this board and reading others struggles and successes push me forward.Today was easy. Worked nights but was busy. Got up and cold outside. Cut grass, didnt even think about smoke. Used to light one up on way to shed, light another half way through with a drink of water, another when I was done admiring the look of the yard. Today I smelled the yard. Not the faint smell of cut grass even smokers sometimes get. I could smell the mud in the back corner where I dump the grass, the grass, the gasoline, dog do, some fallen leaves. Everything had its own smell.Far as craves...none. Desires or thoughts..maybe one. Easing up. Got NOPE in front now. Just tough habit. Everyone has finally noticed. So a shameful future if I forget NOPE.I am the original smoker and addict to the core for it. So if I can do 16 days, cold turkey, and it is getting easy, anyone can do it. Years ago people would say I wasnt allowed to quit, too crabby to begin with, would rip your head off and worse when I would try going without the fix for a few days. Maybe I am getting old, or maybe just happy to put them down this time.From the generation where everyone smoked when I grew up. They smoked on tv, in every building, at every event. Remember the Marboro Man on the largest billboard in town. The one which sat over the Liberty bridge by itself. To be grown up you smoked. All teenagers smoked, couldnt wait to be cool like them...I smoked through the ARMY, three decades since becoming cool. Not all pack a day times. The last 15 years probably. Had Ultra Lights which cant hurt because they are "100 percent natural too"..Go to the races. It's the Winston Cup whose slogan was "One Big Smoking Section"and handed out cartons in the infield. We were all drinking and having a good time with the "free smokes". Nobody was telling us where we could smoke and the sponser says so..And I will buy another pack each day for years in support of the freedom.Well times are reverse. Uncool to smoke. "When are you going to quit.." Being last guy to give it up. Not really, but feel like it. Remember when non smoking sections came out. Who wants to sit there? Now there is no smoking in bars. Did this too long. Standing outside at buildings, bars, hotels, crowded near doors with the other junkies.No more. NOPEThose free cartons of smokes probably cost $36500.00 using 20 years at $5 a pack. #55  lynn1957Bakon,Congrats on 16 days quit. I too remember when it was acceptable to smoke. My mother kept ashtrays on the livingroom tables for company (nobody smoked in my family). All bars, restaurants and hotels were smoking. I smoked at work, in airplanes and anywhere I darn well wanted to. I feel like you- should have quit a long time ago when it started to become socially unacceptable. But, at least we've getting there now. NOPE #56  bakon Posted 09 October 2012 - 07:35 PM16- I look at the counter- 309 cigarettes. Have to pause to picture them laid out. Dont feel like I have missed that many. First couple days, sure I missed the 25 listed. But over 300, I have trouble picturing, I really missed 309. No way. Feels like a few days worth, so 60-. But does not feel like more, happy with that. Must be easing up more than I have noticed.No problems today. Waking up, still not jumping out of bed like I used to. Probably cause I ran to garage to light up before. Dont need the fix to get moving, or is it get moving for the fix?Anyways only upon getting up do I even think about it. Not a crave, just a thought, lasts about a MINUTE. Still marching with NOPE. I am the puff away from a pack guy. #57  ATCSharpPosted 09 October 2012 - 07:42 PMKeep it up! I just hit one week today. IT GETS EASIER! I PROMISE! Today was almost a normal day. The cravings are very weak!#58  bakon17- Easy peezy. Been walking dogs. Slightly longer here and there. Feels good to get blood pumping. One thought, minor, 30 seconds. Smelled someone smoking outside business. Felt bad for them sitting there with cold weather coming. Getting the fix.NOPE- what a nice little word with so much strength. #59  candothis Posted 10 October 2012 - 06:25 PMBakon you are such an inspiration! I love reading your journal! Way to go!! And thank you for sharing! #60  bakon Posted 11 October 2012 - 06:10 AMThe inspiration for me is everyone who responded to this thread. Anyone with a comment helped push me to here. Another day and another pack I didnt smoke because of the kind words and support. Thanks everyone.Had a long talk with an ex smoker. Cold turkey guy. Hospital trip for two weeks for him, but smoke free two years. Also a current smoker who "enjoys it still". All I could do is tell them about the site and what I learned. How do you explain nicotine without preaching? It all comes out sounding like they are complete dumbass for saying "they enjoy it" of course you enjoy the nicotine but both admit they hated smell and health issues. Thier replying sounded ridiculous. No its relaxing. No its just the physical part. No its the satisfaction. No its ..... the nicotine dumbass.NOPE
#61  soul bakon,good to read that you are doing well and discovering many things about the addiction and about yourself.Quote.............No its ..... the nicotine ............I think that it is much more than the nicotine. Smoking provides to the smoker with an escape from the present, it also provides the smoker a place where to hide from his/her emotions. Cigarettes also can be felt as a "companion", some say it takes boredom away. In the morning, it helps you wake up, when nervous it helps you calm down, not to mention how it affects your appetite.................and there are so many more reasons that people use (often without knowing) to continue the self-destructive path that smoking offers.This addiction is cunning, baffling and powerful. The hundred of chemicals in cigarettes affect the body as well, not only nicotine alters and desstroys the normal state of the body............Keep on being the example bakon, keep on moving forward, the quit is obviously opening many doors for you. Be proud of your accomplishment. #62  bakonPosted 12 October 2012 - 12:17 AM18- OK much of day. Got crabby around 9pm, about an hour before I get ready for work. No reason, but is my 7 day in a row for work. We work 28 day rotation and change shift weekly. Like to blame that but usually last one before days off I am in good mood. Slight headache, tired and hungry so its just no fun right now. Steelers just lost too.Not worried about smoking right now, just not easy pezzy like yesterday.Nope.#63  youngster513 Posted 12 October 2012 - 12:37 AMNOPE, NOPE, NOPE! TGIF soon! #64  bakon Posted 13 October 2012 - 10:33 AMDay 20- Just starting day. Yesterday was ok. Had lots of stress, furniture we waited 6 weeks for didnt fit where we wanted. Had to send back, reorder/shop for something else. Mother coming to visit, another stresser. But no smokes. Went to dinner with wife and friends, drink after for two hours in seriously smokey bar, made it, but could have caved there if I knew I could get away with it. Also didnt want to reset counter. 20 is big number right now.Moving foward. #65  bakonPosted 14 October 2012 - 11:15 AMThree weeks today. WOW. Easier than start but still no piece of pie either. Painting rooms today. Hate painting. No urges, couple thoughts of smoking but too busy to dwell on them. Anyways, keep marching, NOPE #66  Bradley ParkerPosted 14 October 2012 - 12:05 PMbakon saidThree weeks today. WOW. Easier than start but still no piece of pie either. Painting rooms today. Hate painting. No urges, couple thoughts of smoking but too busy to dwell on them. Anyways, keep marching, NOPEHey, just think how much longer the painting would take, if every half hour, all progress stopped for a duration of ten minutes... Sounds more frustrating than just chugging through and enjoying all that time left over at the end, or at least finishing the job in one day instead of 1+1/2... #67  bakon Posted 15 October 2012 - 03:55 PM22- Spent day painting again. Hate painting but it was easier not getting worked up where to stop to take break. Just keep going, around the room, up hall around another room and up stairs. Took 8 hours of nonstop work. Didnt miss the smoking. Did try to light up an imaginary one where I was stirring the paint. Old habit. Wonder how long things like that will pop up.Like I siad yesterday, it is easier. Much, and worth it. But those thoughts of missing something pop up now and then. Miss that buzz but not anything else. Not the smell, taste, ashtray. Not buying, carrying, looking for lighter. Not packing them, running out and worry about when I can have another. Dont miss smoking a few in a row to get ready for time I cant have one. Dont miss running outside after meal, or at bar where there is no smoking. Huddled around some old stinky ashtray on a window sill, or worse some can in the corner. Dont miss my truck smelling like a butt. Dont miss the headache or dry mouth it gives at times.NOPE #68  Bradley ParkerPosted 15 October 2012 - 06:11 PMbakon saidDont miss the headache or dry mouth it gives at times.NOPEAgreed; the dry mouth was a big killer for me. It was causing my teeth to go bad at age 21. Dentist says major improvement; I'm 3 days shy of 2 months. #69  bakon Posted 16 October 2012 - 10:42 AM23- Still wake up looking for smoke but after a minute it goes away. I assume blood sugar is lowest when I wake and causing this. Good otherwise. I am guessing the 1 month /2 month/ 3 and so on get even easier.NOPE is still working. Plus this group. All the comments are helpful. #70  dls46711Posted 16 October 2012 - 01:08 PMIt does keep getting easier. You keep the NOPE attitude, and the voices and urges will fade  Congrats! Keep posting. #71  christine1960 Posted 16 October 2012 - 04:55 PMBakon,Great to see your updates. You are doing great and helping so many newbies with your posts. KTQ!!! #72  bakon24- Still here. Worked then came home and worked on car. Clean it up real good to put away for the winter. Rims off and all that stuff. Two big smoking activities but did not miss it. Looked for my lighter when getting something off work bench. Just a second thought. Kind of funny. Brain programmed to light up upon reaching a certain point in chore. Went and grabbed a root beer for the reward. Had to laugh at it. Thanks for support everyone. Really helps me push on. NOPE for another day...  #73  dancer_I Posted 17 October 2012 - 06:36 PM #74  bakon Posted 18 October 2012 - 03:37 PM25 Still here and not one puff. To me that is the deal. Cant take one or its not a quit. Anyways marching on without any major problems. Is easier but every once in a while it creeps in. Nothing big, no running to store, have not bummed one, mostly dont like smell right now. Wished I had kept an ashtray so when I am in the garage I could lick it. Only real time I want one.Well going to gym. Been going for a while but took summer off with injury. Figure time to go back.Later #75  Bradley ParkerPosted 18 October 2012 - 11:48 PMbakon said25 Still here and not one puff.That's what we like to hear.  t#76  bakon Posted 20 October 2012 - 09:46 AM27- Waiting to hit that 1 month mark. Crazy dreams and sleeping. I wake up a few times a night, which is not unusual but dreams in every segment. Also seem to sleep better, not tired during day (unless I eat something big.) Just dont think I had so many dreams when I smoked. Blamed Chantix for these dreams a few years ago, quit taking it and started smoking again. Cold turkey this time, so maybe just readjusting to new blood and lack of chemicals. #77  christine1960 Congrats on One Month! Keep that great quit going! #78  marciem Posted 20 October 2012 - 08:22 PMHey there bakon, I'm saving you a seat here in the one-month-mobile!! It sure is nice here, lots of goodies and munchies and leather heated seats and all #79  bakonPosted 22 October 2012 - 11:13 AM29- counter says 29 today.waiting for the one month flip. Maybe tomorrow. We work a 28 day rotation, change shifts weekly. So four weeks, 28 days, is a month to me. Still NOPE. Not one. Watched Steelers at smokey bar again last night. Left at half time. Nose all stuffy today. Slight headache but I will blame Sam Adams Octoberfest on that.So I have made several beer nights without lighting up. Watched other smokers, looks kind of silly. Dont miss it. And that smell, its bad and they stink. I wish I never smelled like that to anyone.
more later- this is killing my pointer finger. frekin delete button to remove pictures and signatures
#81  Bradley Parker This is a smoke-free city where I live, and these Indian liquor store guys are often saying "We proudly allow smoking within our store." Who's gonna hate them for it#82  bakon Goofy laws. Some bars have smoking, some dont. Has something to do with nobody under 18 working there and amount of food service. No sure exactly, just some still have it and most dont. Of course private clubs are ok to smoke.30- still here. NOPE is a great saying.. Also still like the "puff away from a pack a day." #83  bakon Posted 24 October 2012 - 08:13 AM31- Got one month on the counter. Working OT today but soon as we finish I am pulling the bike out. Harley- 78 degrees in Pittsburgh today. Hopefully get an hour or two in before dark.Then I am getting a steak and beer for dinner, or margarettas (special on Thursdays) and some Mexican.Thanks for help everyone. Good day. No big problems. Wake up a few times a night, but getting enough sleep.NOPE.#84  BAH Congrats on your first smoke free month#85  bakon Posted 26 October 2012 - 04:07 PM33 hit the one month blah. No excitement and minor irritations. Working through, just adjusting. Rode yesterday 175 miles with a group. First big ride since quiting. One guy smoked. Didnt bother me to not smoke but the habit was right there. Used "NOPE". Need some more time especially with things I associated smoking with. #86  bakonPosted 27 October 2012 - 05:32 PM34. 'Moving along. Easy day. Smelled it on some people but no cravings, want, thoughts. Read about Skip and his posts. Pretty cool he quit and helped others. Some posters on this thread helped me make it to here. Support from group. Thanks all. #87  bakon Posted 28 October 2012 - 04:22 PM35. Counter will read 700 by days end. Cool beans. #88  bakon Posted 29 October 2012 - 06:41 PM36- Into six week. Cold turkey whole time. Hit gym today. I need to go more. Got a few extra pounds now but nothing to bad. Smoking- easy today. No problems, getting used to doing everything without them. Read some people on site and try not to say anything judgemental, just supportive. I hope they read as much as I did and get educated. Luck wont cut it. #89  BAH Posted 29 October 2012 - 09:43 PMOver seven hundred avoided, incredible isnt it?Luck is nice to say, like how are you.fine..but wont get you farYour doing fine baconator, eventually you wont even notice what you used to do with a smoke,promise #90  bakon Posted 29 October 2012 - 09:53 PMActually got bakon name in south florida. Key west during a bike week. Buddy sees some cop pulled on side of dinner earlier in week. Says "look they even got bacon on the side". Saw bike from PA with bacon on plate in Key West..so when the group sees the bacon plate they are all over me to try and get something similiar when we get home.Seems only others with similiar work actually get it. Or anyone old enough to like the movie Smokey and the Bandit.Next time i see him I'll mention to sandwich. #91  BAHPosted 30 October 2012 - 12:51 PMhttps://encrypted-tb...7VnV1WLOY9F1udaLOVE smokey!!! They closed the Burt Reynolds theatre in Jupiter now, did you ever go? As a kid I thought it was some kind of glamorous place Burt hung out at.We let our kids watch this recently and they thought it was awesome. Cracked us up that a movie from then could hold their attention now. They were especially fascinated with the CB radios  #92  bakon Never been there. Funny bacon, pig, smokey...dont hear them anymore.When my son was about 11 we told him about the movie. This was around 2002. He didnt believe me. No way dad. He was all into cars. Finally believes me half way and asks "did the car have a bird on the hood..cuz otherwise its a firebird not a trans am." Standing there like a know it all. Went out and bought the movie on vhs the next day. Probably the only tape i still own. #93  bakon38 days and still marching. No problem today. Mornings when I dont have to work move slower than old days. No jumping up to go get my fix. I can roll over and flip on the boob tube. Flat chested now with HD. Guess not many call it that anymore. Anyways no rush and actually getting used to it. 751 on counter. #94  youngster513 Good job Bakon! #95  pvprincessPosted 01 November 2012 - 03:12 AMBAH saidhttps://encrypted-tbn0.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcTHhIV5siYPizZc1AQM3B_IbtNS0H-gxH4A_7VnV1WLOY9F1udaLOVE smokey!!! They closed the Burt Reynolds theatre in Jupiter now, did you ever go? As a kid I thought it was some kind of glamorous place Burt hung out at.We let our kids watch this recently and they thought it was awesome. Cracked us up that a movie from then could hold their attention now. They were especially fascinated with the CB radios ahhhh the classics... we have a smokey marathon every now and then. #96  bakonPosted 04 November 2012 - 04:14 AM42- Going smooth. Thinking less about it. Everyday chores and such are not so strange. Adjusting to life without a smoking turd hanging from my lip. #97  dancer_I Posted 04 November 2012 - 04:20 AMbakon said42- Going smooth. Thinking less about it. Everyday chores and such are not so strange. Adjusting to life without a smoking turd hanging from my lip.Good for you.  #98  bakon Posted 06 November 2012 - 02:22 AM43-44 Loosing count. Know I am getting somewhere when I cant remember exact number of days. First couple I was hanging on to each like a gold piece. 1, 2,3...10, 11.Now I got to figure it out. Good sign.Still learning in here. Watching and reading. Bleeding gums- figured I brushed too hard. Didnt even relate it to smoking. Was one tooth for a couple days but didnt see that one.Mostly read here to see how some others are doing. Pay it foward some. I feel fine mostly and even when down or crabby I dont want to smoke. Did it longer than I ever thought I would. Probably didnt want to quit most of the time. But did some of it.Always a little envious of people who hiked or biked or walked, ran, whatever activity I knew would leave me sucking wind. Well a flight of stairs never got me, but 5 floors of stairs would. Run,I aint running anywhere when I got a car or motorcycle... you know the thinking. Now a flight of steps or walk is beneficial and enjoyable.NOPE- great little word. #99  dancer_I Good to see ya bakon. NOPE.  #100  candothisYou're doing so good!Fun to watch your success!
lots more - but holding off, finger is crying and don't want to P O anyone over there that might not want to be over here. maybe I need to pick just my stuff, but they were helpful people on my thread, everyone pushed me on and they were the hero's  i will bring more over if this flies straight, first month was hardest anyways and don't want to give you window lickers too much info to use against me. see what the feeling is anyways, probably only Nancy will like reading the ramblings....she likes everything i do  Two years and don't miss it. So to the newbies, keep posting. Make a year pledge to post at least every day. Just a hello. We need people in all stages of quit. Group is heavy on the old timers right now. We need 1 month, three, five , eight, year and half. All different levels.   As for me. Counter gone. Sgt tossed his much earlier in quit. I kept training wheels longer. As for me posting, ok right now, keeps my mind from other things, winter coming and still enjoy the selfies from all the eggs, belly dancers and bus riders. Hopefully I will know when its time, plenty of good help here. Stay close as long as your feeling it. and a little bit more for good measure.  Little longer, because like Boston says...you'll forget about me once I've been gone.
bakon, if you hit the 'blog this' button, then all of this great info will be forever immortalised in your blog ;)
"error- got to at least have a blog...."   maybe look into this more, thanks pimp
great to see where you started and how far you have come fur ball :) 1 day off 2 years :)
Bakon, so you will be 2 full years tomorrow, eh? Congratulations! That's terrific! Please do blog these posts. This record of your journey will help a lot of other quitters. I also find it amazing that even after all this time your avatar doesn't look a day older. Quitting smoking must have been good for your skin!  :)
I made blog- but think something wont be right...attached external link to blog or something like that...think it will disappear if they delete it over there, plus I believe it is linking me over to the other place, which is not what I want. Any comments go over there? definitely not what I want? HELP  ok think I exteral linked this thread now...but blog this don't work.   I am computer dangerous, not good, not bad, no facebook or Skype, just slow moving news groups and threads. so pictures sometimes even get me but lately got some photosomething account and posted through there. anyways someone with the control buttons want to fix this mess, please remove my blog, don't know how it works and figure I did something wrong because when I hit blog this, it still says I don't have one, probably something to do with external link.Then come delelte this plea. my finger hurtys and I cant type no more todasy.
lots more - but holding off, finger is crying and don't want to P O anyone over there that might not want to be over here. maybe I need to pick just my stuff, but they were helpful people on my thread, everyone pushed me on and they were the hero's  i will bring more over if this flies straight, first month was hardest anyways and don't want to give you window lickers too much info to use against me. see what the feeling is anyways, probably only Nancy will like reading the ramblings....she likes everything i do  Two years and don't miss it. So to the newbies, keep posting. Make a year pledge to post at least every day. Just a hello. We need people in all stages of quit. Group is heavy on the old timers right now. We need 1 month, three, five , eight, year and half. All different levels.   As for me. Counter gone. Sgt tossed his much earlier in quit. I kept training wheels longer. As for me posting, ok right now, keeps my mind from other things, winter coming and still enjoy the selfies from all the eggs, belly dancers and bus riders. Hopefully I will know when its time, plenty of good help here. Stay close as long as your feeling it. and a little bit more for good measure.  Little longer, because like Boston says...you'll forget about me once I've been gone.Of course I like everything you do!  You keep us all on track, but keep us from taking ourselves too seriously! :wub:
LOL you are such a doughnut or donut to you ;)
#101bakonPea BrainPosted 08 November 2012 - 02:00 AM45- Had motorcycle club meetings the last two nights at bars. Couldnt drink, I am working the night shift this week. One bar is smoke free, had some people standing outside at door getting last one in before meeting. Getting cold out so they are huddled in the smoker circle or hunched single style getting the puffs in quick and quiet to return to the main crowd inside with their fresh crapbreath and ashtray perfume. (Sorry but still hate smell) This is the larger HOG chapter meeting with really the only requirement to join is owning a Harley. Ok group, some eating and drinking. Guy uses a microphone to run meeting so its only intimate with who you sit with. Had no thoughts of smoking. Usually puffed away with the other guys outside and couldnt wait to get meeting over to have another and talk bikes.Other club is smaller, meetings in private room. We can smoke and lay it all out without others around. Usually others in bar at same time and they can smoke in same room when not in use. Stunk. Convinced group to stay out in main area for as long as possible.We ate and bullshtted. Covered club business and before I knew it we were done without ever moving to the smoke room.Did miss having a beer with the guys, but that happens alot with the work routine.Glad I wasnt around smoke at both places, dont want it, or need it, dont desire it, dont even think about it, NOPE. #102  BAHPosted 08 November 2012 - 10:54 AMQuoteGlad I wasnt around smoke at both places, dont want it, or need it, dont desire it, dont even think about it, NOPE.AWESOME!  #103youngster513yo Bakon, how you doing?  #104  bakonPosted 14 November 2012 - 09:06 AM51-52 days Thanks for asking.Glad to see your still here too. I haven't posted every day because my quit is kind of boring. No problems and such.Doing fine. I watched Steeler game in smokey club the other night. Wanted one until the place got too smokey. Knew I would blow the whole quit with one puff. Not really tough though, just a thought, not an urge like I needed it, or skin crawling. I could taste it in the air some and the smell was awful so I knew it would lead to a s**t smear down my tongue and regret for the burn in my throat.Then watching smokers was a weird scene.. White stick hanging out of mouth, pack and lighter with their drinks, money and ashtray in front of them. Cell phone too. Like they need a desk to lay out all the supplies they need to watch the game. Sip of beer, toke the smoke, blow it out the side cuz dont want to blow it in anyones face, sit it down and let it burn in ashtray for a few seconds, smoke drifting right at group but they arent holding it so not their fault, sip beer, toke smoke, repeat....Then I was talking to someone who is usually pretty nice, she dont smoke but her husband is club manager and smokes. We quit a few years back around same time. Both made about 2-3 weeks on Chantix and both went back to smoking. Not blaming chantix. Dont think either of us really tried. I couldnt wait to get off it and used it for reason my quit didnt work.Anyways I tell her I quit and she says "Again" . It was like an insult with the tone. Like I was wasting the time and effort. Which is cool with me.My ex said to me one time "again" and I went two years without firing up just to prove to the b!tch she was wrong. Now I dont think she meant to be a bitch but....I will use this to help fortify my resolve.  #105  BAH Anyways I tell her I quit and she says "Again" . It was like an insult with the tone. Like I was wasting the time and effort. Which is cool with me.My ex said to me one time "again" and I went two years without firing up just to prove to the b!tch she was wrong. Now I dont think she meant to be a bitch but....I will use this to help fortify my resolve.Yeah, it's very intimidating to smokers that you are quit. You are doing what they think about every day and yet they can not hear and are scared to take that leap.I LOVE boring! Means no BS in my worldNice to hear from you  #106  bakon Posted 16 November 2012 - 10:36 AM53- Going well. Posting some on other threads. Like I know what I am talking about.....Been hitting gym and walking dogs. Sore, every part of me. Been going to gym on and off whole life, go a year, skip a year or two, repeat,...kind of gave up on cardio stuff, mostly weights, dont get out of breath with them when I was smoking...so now I dont smoke and its weights plus treadmill or walk the dogs when I get home. Weather sets course, rain and the dogs stay in.Have not hit gym hard since April when I had a home improvement accident get me a handful of stiches and two weeks off work. Then vacations hit.... so now I got no yardwork, motorcycle tucked away for winter nap (once a month ride all year for me but riding season is over) home improvements done, no more trips planned.....out of excuses so into the gym. And a new gym, with new equipment, and heat. Old gym was awesome to me, large, dark, cold, like the original Rocky movie. One everyone avoids now a day. Best part equipment was so bad and broken the treadmill would just stop after 5 minutes. Stop dead..oh well guess I am done.Well it closed.New gym is bright, wife likes it better, has heat so people are showing off their butts and bicepts. Just trying to find a groove and the right equipment. They got machines for everything. Some free weights, but tight back in that corner, only room for a few. SO I am done for today, even fingers are sore. #107  monojoKeep it up, bakon- you're doing such a wonderful job! Isn't it great to realize how much better life is as a non smoker?   #108    frezlisPosted 17 November 2012 - 02:41 AMWay to go keep on keeping on. I hate working but do it daily I have a treadmill at home. I do that and yoga plus I have hand weights that I work with. You will get more energy now without smoking and working out.one cigarette away from smoking full time...how do you avoid that? Never smoke again that's how!!!!! #109   bakon 17 November 2012 - 09:56 AM54- Went for wings and beer last night at Buffalo Wild Wings. Taste was great- ate HOT, which only 2 levels above and maybe 10 below. Burn was nice but the payback burn out the rear today wasnt. Beer was good- 3 tall Sam Adams seasonal Winter Lager....didnt think of a smoke at all. Not once.Walked out to go home and there is a huddle of 7 smokers near door. Must have been all part of same group because it was an unusually tight huddle, like a football one (not that English soccer football, American football type huddle where they pick a play) Looked stupid. Realized I drank and ate, not one thought of a smoke, until I saw my old spot outside where I used to huddle against the cold.Laughed to myself and walked by. #110  bakonPosted 19 November 2012 - 04:06 PM8 weeks. 56 days and over 1100 avoided. Pretty cool. Marching on. youngster513Posted 19 November 2012 - 04:20 PMWay to go Bakon, this is great how you keep this diary of your journey. You will look back on this in the future as a great memory! KTQ bud!  #113  bakon Posted 22 November 2012 - 09:54 PM60 Today is Thanksgiving. Was easy and food tasted great.Yesterday was easy until I had a few beers...Then my friends were firing up. Hit me hard out of the blue. Normally I smell smoke when out and hate it. Not then, could taste it and I had to struggle a little to keep from bumming one. Told buddy that one puff would equal a pack to me. Then another pack today. Made it through but suprized the draw it had. No thoughts today and so glad that burning turd never touched my lips. Have to be careful around the beer and others who smoke, still not a cement fixture. #114 bakonPosted 25 November 2012 - 10:16 PM64- Couple of posts I made somewhere else ....Thoughts on relapse...I have lost year long quits. Two year quit once. Why, because i wanted to smoke and be part of all that went along with it. Didnt want to stay free of it. That simple.When you quit smoking there is a change in mind and body, which is more enjoyable the longer the quit. I left my quit behind because my crowd of friends looked like their smoking was better. So I joined them.Was it better.... your all from the nicotine train...you know what I was chasing. What things look like and what they really are is usually different once both feet have jumped in. It was not.Will you relaspe... only if you want to. That simple.Urges/Craves...Every urge you beat, you get stronger. The next urge is weaker. The mind grows to realize it cannot make you react to an urge. So again stronger for you, weaker for next urge. This continues until the urge is a thought.Thoughts are weaker still and the body makes no action. This goes until there is only occasional thoughts, then no thought.I am only at 2 months, and no thought of smoking unless I choose to think about it. Sure I smell it now and then, but it gives me nothing. No response. #115  Jude59 Posted 25 November 2012 - 10:21 PMYou're doing a fantastic job.  #116  bakon Posted 01 December 2012 - 01:49 AM70- no problems  #117  christine1960Bakon,I love your updates. I am so glad you are continuing to do well in your quit. #118  bakon Posted 03 December 2012 - 02:18 AM72- Not one thought today. Steelers beat Ravens too!Post made elsewhere:Seeing smokers and being bothered during early quit....Soon you will see smokers different. They are not getting to smoke. They have to or they feel bad. Soon they will look silly. Or perhaps you will feel sorry for them. Too bad there isnt a magic shot to get off the nicoteen. Whoever invents that will be a gazillionaire. Dont know anyone who would not quit if there was no pain.One shot, your done, no pain, no moods, no stink. I gotta go down in the garage and get to work on that.On getting nonsmoker husband involved with early quit...You need to share some thoughts with your husband. Most of us are pretty dumb with the feeling stuff, so guidence is needed. And usually while a man listens he is thinking "What do I say to help, how do I help,..." Men dont usually just listen and go "OK" we arent programmed that way. We are fixers, not listeners. So figure out how to say it. "Hey I'm not asking for help, but this smoking thing got me messed up,....or I know you dont smoke but this stuff is hard, my skin is crawling can we go...to help get my mind off it"Give us husbands a chance to screw up. But point out your just venting, not looking for answers.Its too easy for us to say "Just suck it up and dont smoke" because they dont know how to fix it and are frustrated. Dont frustrate an idiot, help them help you.  #119  TimidTulipPosted 03 December 2012 - 06:16 AMHI Bakon, great to see the latest update. Very happy for you that you are marching on with your quit!I noticed smokers outside a pub yesterday, they looked frozen. And pathetic. I had a little chuckle to myself as a walked on by into the dry and warm, happy and content that I never have to interrupt my evening to go and get rained on and frozen stiff, just to get nicotine.(I love that husbands try to fix everything, it's so sweet. If not always successful  )#120  youngster513Posted 04 December 2012 - 01:17 AMGood job Bakon!
#121  bakon Posted 06 December 2012 - 01:59 AM75- Went to motorcycle club meetings last two nights. Worried about these when I started quit. Didnt phase me one bit now. Kind of breezing though now. Got gainsey as the same quit date too, along with youngster. So more eyes watching I dont fail. Not that I want any smokes, but would hate to reset counter and admit it to anyone here. Never met anyone here, but wouldnt want to disappoint either. No worry of that right now. Christmas smells are popping up. Cant remember last time I smelled a holiday. #122  BAH Posted 06 December 2012 - 04:02 PMFunny how we build something to be so big in our minds and turns out to be nothing.I am watching you too  #123  bakonPosted 12 December 2012 - 10:18 AM80- four days off, no problems.Have to watch I dont become anti smoker, not just a non smoker. Had Christmas party at a Firehouse. Usually guys smoke in garage but tables were set up in there. Smokers were going outside until...they decided to hide in a corner of the garage. Started to smell it and went looking...well did say something to a pair of them about taking it outside. Didnt work but before I took it further I realized it really wasnt up to me. No rules or signs or anything. Plus leadership all smokes so only could rely on their sense of not smoking around the kids. My wife couldnt smell it so maybe I am overly sensitive to odor. Anyways I dont want to be the enforcer of not smoking. Just want to be a non-smoker. Never liked the guy who preached because he quit. #124  bakon Posted 14 December 2012 - 10:37 AM82 1600+ smokes. Ok today. Just a copy of a post with someone struggling after 20 days. I remember that time of good and bad days. When your not sure you want to stay quit due to not knowing how to live without the habit and the roller coaster of mind games...Sounds like your body readjusting to not having so many chemicals in it . Enjoy the pain, it's healing your feeling. Body and mind will take some time but it will end all the sudden. One day soon you won't think smoking is the cause of anything You will be past it. It's too easy to blame withdraw for everything. It's not withdraw, it's getting better. Years of smoking and everyone wants three days to be the only struggle. It takes more than that. #125  youngster513 Posted 14 December 2012 - 03:12 PMDoing great bakon! I'm doing good as well! #126  bakon Posted 15 December 2012 - 10:35 AMGainsey still around too. Saw him post the other day. Good job #127  bakon Posted 25 December 2012 - 11:13 AMThree Montrhs. Christmas Day. No urges in forever. No problems. Little weight gain but nothing to worry about. Merry Christmas. #128  dancer_IPosted 25 December 2012 - 04:01 PMbakon saidVery cool Akron. #129  bakonPosted 03 January 2013 - 02:17 PM3 months 10 days, but the important one over 2000 smokes avoided. 100 packs. 10 cartons. Thats alot of smoke.  #130  JTPhillyPosted 03 January 2013 - 05:36 PMamazing how fast those little suckers add up huh? Doing great Bakon! #131  youngster513 03 January 2013 - 10:59 PMDoing good bakon! #132  bakonPosted 07 February 2013 - 06:20 AM137 days (roughly) 4 months 11 days. Motorcycle club meetings again. No problem. Had to shower when I got home to get smell off of others smoking. The smell is not as repulsive as the first month but I do try to avoid it.Newbies: at 4 months I feel a gazillion times better. Smoking is just about never a thought. All activites seem normal without it. Dont miss it one bit.Seems longer than only 137 days. 4+ Months make it sound longer, but back at day 2 is easy to remember. The struggle of every minute, every hour, thoughts of how can I make it even a week. It was minute by minute at times and nothing like today. It is really easy now.Its nice to know NOPE..NOT ONE PUFF EVER works. I never took a puff and I made it. No relapse or fighting it again and again. and I havent had one puff since my first post and going for a sandwich reward after making it one hour without smoking. #133  sintahbean Posted 07 February 2013 - 08:08 AMHave loved reading this, thank you! Mary #134  youngster513 Posted 07 February 2013 - 10:28 PMLooking good Bakon!t#135  Cristobal Posted 07 February 2013 - 10:45 PMbakon saidNewbies: at 4 months I feel a gazillion times better. Smoking is just about never a thought. All activites seem normal without it. Dont miss it one bit.Its nice to know NOPE..NOT ONE PUFF EVER works. I never took a puff and I made it. No relapse or fighting it again and again.Bakon I am very happy you are posting this. There are many Newbies here from january, they need to know this.All of this is true, but when your quit is new it is impossible to see this.Cristóbal#136  bakonPosted 08 February 2013 - 01:15 AMYoungster and Gainesy quit same time. They know the same thing Cristobal is saying. It doesnt take long to feel normal. At the beginning it feels like Army basic training. Your never going to make it. It hell and cant picture it being complete or over. Like climbing a mountain. I used to post "keep marching". It's a reference to an uphill battle or all the marching and hiking they put you through. Comparing the struggle of marching and quiting the shiitsticks. Put your head down and look at your feet if you need to, but keep moving foward. "Carry on" was a saying. A battle hyme of survival. Just keep marching and footstep by footstep the end gets closer.What's the end? Never an end, just the end of struggling. Longer for some. The march never really ends, but you crest the mountain and its downhill from there. Feet fall in front of each other, just got to lift them off the ground and let gravity pull them forward. Then you get in shape and you can go further and further. Walking/no smoking gets easier. Everyday/ every step is lighter.Maybe, eventually, the day comes when you fart rainbows and sing in the rain. Who knows? Just dont get all wrapped up in how hard it is. Enjoy the struggle because when its all behind you... the war stories come out and basic training was some of the best days of your life, because you completed it and moved on to better places. You will say it was hard at the time but not that bad. It was that bad then, but it is so much better now the sting is gone.  Like This#138  RedSkirtPosted 08 February 2013 - 09:32 PMbakon said137 days (roughly) 4 months 11 days. Motorcycle club meetings again. No problem. Had to shower when I got home to get smell off of others smoking. The smell is not as repulsive as the first month but I do try to avoid it.Newbies: at 4 months I feel a gazillion times better. Smoking is just about never a thought. All activites seem normal without it. Dont miss it one bit.Seems longer than only 137 days. 4+ Months make it sound longer, but back at day 2 is easy to remember. The struggle of every minute, every hour, thoughts of how can I make it even a week. It was minute by minute at times and nothing like today. It is really easy now.Its nice to know NOPE..NOT ONE PUFF EVER works. I never took a puff and I made it. No relapse or fighting it again and again. and I havent had one puff since my first post and going for a sandwich reward after making it one hour without smoking.So happy for you bakon!!!! I remember when you first came on the board. My quit feels remarkably similar to yours. Around the 4 month mark, I really no longer even thought about cigs. I, too, adherred to the NOPE philosophy. I took the option off the table completely and it somehow worked for me without too much stress. I cannot imagine ever smoking--or wanting to smoke--agin. And I feel ah-mazing!!!!Attitude is everything. Keep up the great work you are doing in taking care of your health and yourself. You deserve to be very proud. #139  bakonPosted 24 February 2013 - 06:42 PM5 months over 3000 smokes avoided.No problems, no urges, occasionally think "I used to smoke doing this." But no desire to light a turd. Smell of them is not offensive as before. But I dont like it. Avoid it. Some places still allow it, and when I do go those situations call for a shower when I get home. Went and watched some racing on Thursday, never drink in afternoon but was off and group of guys were going. Felt like I was missing it for about 20 seconds. Then someone says "You quit for a while now. How do you stand the smell?" This guy was a smoker. I know he is ready to start the trip to where I now am.For the newbies and those struggling...its gets easier. 99 percent of the time I dont think about it. If I stayed away from group it would be less. The urges and wanting fades.It fades expodentially. Longer away, better I feel about it. Was big and long part of my life so still comes up here and there, just very easy to handle. NOPE carried me when the group wasnt pushing me foward. Never want to reset that counter.Keep marching through, it turns out to be nicer with each step. #140  EmmaBunny Posted 24 February 2013 - 10:47 PMThank you for that encouragement, bakon, and congratulations to you.
you will see our new DANCER in the previous post. Also Youngster hit 10 months the other day. Relapse is very real.
God bakon fair play to you, that would have taken you forever to do but soo worth it,This is exactly what quitters need to be reading, it  helps them to know it's totally normal to feel how they are feeling and to know that their is light at the end of the tunnel is like music to their ears, great to see by really the 4th month you had found your comfort,  is great motivation for the newbies in first few days and weeks when it's hard to see the wood from the trees.I wish I had wrote my feelings down at the start, I would totally recommend anyone starting a quit to do, perfect to see how far you have come and when cravings hit helps to remind you how hard the start was and reminds you that you aint going back to day one ever. This should be added to the newbie package to get them to start doing the same and to see that someone else felt and went through exactly what they are going through. This and getting them to write their own sos would be extremely beneficial. Seriously thank you bakon for doing that, that is some amount of work you have put in, that's what paying it forward is all about,Respect xxx
This is great Breakfast food! Thanks for transferring your journey so that newbies can see. 
only one computer I access lets me ....got more....just going to take time to get it here...
THE BEST OF THIS POST IS SCAMPS NEAR END. He only ever made 2 posts and this was his first.   #141  kickitorfcckitPosted 25 February 2013 - 06:06 AMYeah, bakon! You're an inspiration!! CongratulationsThanks for posting here to help others, too  #142  christinabell Posted 25 February 2013 - 06:15 AMWell done bakon. Five months is a huge achievement. You should be extremely proud of yourself #143  bakon Posted 18 March 2013 - 09:51 AMMarch 18th and just hit 3500 smokes missed, dont know exact number of days but counter has1 week shy of 6 months.Thought I would update the number of smokes.3500 at five minutes a pop- 17,500 minutesor 291.66666 hoursor 12.152777 days.Over 12 days of constant smoking every second. This is just 1 pack a day of king size.Laid out end to end3500 x 3.25 inches = 11375 inches947.916 feet315.972 yardsover three football fields (not soccer Gainesy)almost 2/10th a mileFor you metric folks3500 x 84 mm=294000mm294 metersalmost 3/10 kilometer#144  KickinSticksposted 18 March 2013 - 08:00 PMBakon, as someone just starting out, it was great and useful to read through your progress over the past half year. Congrats on keeping the quit!#145  islandgirlPosted 19 March 2013 - 07:03 AMCongratulations Bacon on your great quit. Very inspiring journey #146  bakon Posted 19 March 2013 - 08:17 AMThank you both. Live in Steeler country but would prefer being on an island #147  KickinSticksPosted 19 March 2013 - 08:07 PMYeah, grew up in Steeler Country but never moved back after college. Now that there's the direct ticket, we're free to move about the country. #148  bakon Posted 24 March 2013 - 07:45 PM6 months still marching#149  youngster513Posted 24 March 2013 - 08:28 PMGyeah, 6 months bud! Marching on! #150  ShaunPosted 24 March 2013 - 09:25 PMYour doing great!!! Unlike#151   babs609  Posted 24 March 2013 - 09:25 PMexcellent soldier!! doing fabulous!#152  bakonPosted 25 April 2013 - 10:23 AM7 months and doing fine. The temptations are all around but never think twice about it. Saw a half a burned one in a friends ashtray ther other day. Looked at it like "I remember you. I remember how many times you tasted good for the first puff only to let me down with the second. Crappy taste left on my tongue." Smiled and walked away. Friend tried quiting soon after I did. Said the gum dehydrated him and still left him smoking at night. Cant put all the knowledge of this board out there in one conversation. Sounds preachy. How do you tell someone cold turkey is the best asnd easiest route when it sounds the hardest? and is the hardest at first. I didnt even try to explain he didnt really quit and made it worse with what he tried. Just thought to myself "He just isnt ready yet." I could see when I told him I hit 7 months he wished he was me.There is a good signature on one of the people with more time than me...something like ...So many times we feel we wish we were still smoking, and when we were smoking we wished we were here. #153  jimmy009 Posted 25 April 2013 - 03:07 PMkeep on marching forword 7 months is super way to go  #154  bakonPosted 22 May 2013 - 11:12 AMAlmost 8 months and last week was harder than normal. Was a vacation on the motorcycle and smoked a lot more than usual for bike week events in the past. Riding at day and drinking at night plus crowd is more smokers than a regular crowd. Just associated the whole event including the place we stay with the habit. Now I didn't pick any up. Bum any. Buy or borrow. But I did think about it more often and so had to stay on guard. Back home now and have no thoughts of it. In fact the smell has changed to me again. Not a pleasant smell but not like s*** either. Like the smell when I was a kid and an adult fired up. Didn't like it. Harsh. But not that stale klingy crap ashtray odor.  #155  slocumPosted 22 May 2013 - 11:35 AMCongrats on 8 months.Just remember, any junkie thinking is a lie. Smoking never did do anything for you and never will.  #156  EmmaBunny Posted 22 May 2013 - 12:43 PMI bet it was really difficult in that environment, but you held tight and made it through successfully! Congratulations for that. And thank you for reminding all of us that we need to stay alert.  #157  bakon Posted 28 May 2013 - 01:35 AMWife and I have been pretty good with the gym for a few years but I never spent much time with the cardio stuff. Knew I should not smoke was more important than riding a stationary bike for my health. And why get out of breath walking in place on treadmill. Again I was a smoker and three flights of steps could make me piss and moan. Avoid the cardio much as I could, maybe 5-10 minutes and move on. So hit some weights, fake a few sit ups and feel like I was doing my part. Well 8 months quit and I am ready to work on the heart and lungs now. Do some walking a few days a week with the dogs, maybe a 1-1.5 miles in a 15-20 minute route, depending on weather.Lungs and such feeling fine, dont piss and moan walking anymore. Steps or hills are fine. Working at gym still so muscles are stronger than most my age and not overweight, so summer is here and we are doing some bike riding.  #158  anna173 Posted 28 May 2013 - 01:47 AMcongrats!! Hang in there!! you can do this!! Unlike #159  scampNEWLY_REGISTERED2 postsPosted 20 June 2013 - 04:55 AMHi Bakon,I'm more a reader than a poster - Just thought I would post and let you know, that you have helped massively, a 40 year old married guy (20+ year smoker) sitting in Sydney Australia on the other side of the world,I started the journey 95 days ago, and especially at that time, i was googling and reading every article and forum under the sun, anything to to distract myselfIt sure was tough back then. For some reason your posts really struck a chord with me, and i kept returning and reading your thread over and over again over the weeks and months.That NOPE approach sure does work, i credit that simple concept with getting me to 95 days, as well as your "starting out" thread.I know i'm not out of the woods yet, but i'm thinking about it less and less, and it is so much easier to brush off than just a month or two ago.Anyway trust you are staying strong, and thank you from some one you'll never meet, but whom's taken such inspiration from your words and progress, - i bet you never thought as you wrote these, that later you'd be helping someone in Australia in getting the strength to beat the evil sticks !!bestscamp #160  bakonPosted 20 June 2013 - 03:31 PMScamp,thanks buddy. I am closing in on 9 months. I have been watching the "old timers" of the group, people with three months or more when I joined, now get their year mark. I think the group helped me alot and along with a counter I could watch the progress. I would recommend posting some here to help the others, but also get yourself a counter on your signature line. That little thing kept adding days and weeks. I never wanted to reset it and explain to the group that after a few beers I had no control over myself and ended up ruining the quit.Where am I now- well in the background here. Lots of folks saying exactly what I would and dont want to be a smart ass on some posts so best to move on and leave it alone. Other times I feel I got to be Mr Obvious and say the simple thing Pap would say to me when I was young.Thank you for the complements. Those really were my first posts and the progress went pretty fast. I go back and read it myself at times, but you made my day writing what you did. I will have a beer later for you. I have lost quits longer than this before, but never had a place to come and talk about it either. We have some things in common. Over 20 years smoking, I am just a few years older and although we both speak english, I find the movies with you guys talking hillarious. Those guys from England (One of my quit buddies Gainesy) are funny, but I have to listen to what they sat twice sometimes because it is so fast and pronounced so different.Welcome to the group and hope to read some more of your posts.
"On getting nonsmoker husband involved with early quit...You need to share some thoughts with your husband. Most of us are pretty dumb with the feeling stuff, so guidence is needed. And usually while a man listens he is thinking "What do I say to help, how do I help,..." Men dont usually just listen and go "OK" we arent programmed that way. We are fixers, not listeners. So figure out how to say it. "Hey I'm not asking for help, but this smoking thing got me messed up,....or I know you dont smoke but this stuff is hard, my skin is crawling can we go...to help get my mind off it"Give us husbands a chance to screw up. But point out your just venting, not looking for answers.Its too easy for us to say "Just suck it up and dont smoke" because they dont know how to fix it and are frustrated. Dont frustrate an idiot, help them help you.":::::::::::::::: Thank you Bakon, for the whole blog so far, but especially the above. My H quit 12 years ago and while he is very supportive, he gets a little testy if I talk too much about the process (and pain) of my quitting. I think he IS frustrated that he can't just fix it for me and at the same time worried that I might relapse.  I was reading his testiness as his thinking I should just suck it up and get on with it.K
Men and women are different animals, forced by God to live together as a test.  When you accept that fact it becomes easier to see through the others eyes. Took me three wives but I got the current mrs figured out and she got my number too. 
Ha! I'm his #3 and he is my #2 but we've been married 33 years, with a few hiccups, so I guess we figured it out :wub:
#161  bakon  Posted 24 June 2013 - 12:02 AM9 months- 270 days approximately. Doing fine, smell smoke a mile away. Avoid it as much as possible. Had a conversation with an older guy who never smoked last night. He felt smokers were selfish and knew the stink they made but didnt care they made it. I told him how the nose didnt work and they really didnt know how strong the smell was but he wasnt buying the explanation. Said "These smokers think its their right to stink it up." The guy next to us agrees. Never knew some of the true animosity felt. It was like two teams that were at odds.So today we motorcycle ride to a nice scenic water fall in Ohiopyle Pa. Probably 1000 people in the area right above the falls, kids in the water, people laying out, and one lone smoke standing by the waters edge. Looked out of place and had an area of about 25 yards around him all stinking up. Like a 25 yard circle of stench. Nice beautiful scenery and probably enjoying himself, but ruining it for others near him or walking by. Never knew that cloud of stink when I was smoking. And my thought... glad thats not me because we did some walking around the area. Remembering not wanting to hike down to the far end because " I seen it before." That was the excuse so I didnt have to walk and get out of breath. But even if I did walk it I would have had two or three smokes while doing it. One near the falls, one when we finsihed walking, one waiting for the group. You know the standing around looking cool smoke before jumping back on the motorcycle. Plus had to load up the nicoteen for the ride. Well relieved I didnt want it, wasnt tempted, was repulsed by it, ect... NOPE from the start. Not one cigarette. Ever.Now some advise to the newbies....In the beginning, the first week or two and even occasionally for the first couple of months, give yourself some small rewards. That 3 days and the nicoteen is gone is a great saying but I found the first week to be a butt kicker at times. Reward yourself for making each day. In the beginning it is important to give yourself some treat for the work and commitment this takes. A magazine, a milk shake, a book, a new pen, whatever small item helps you feel slightly better and you wouldnt normally buy. A treat because in reality you gave up something and it is hard.You earned it.Then put your head up and keep marching. #162  JTPhilly Great update Bakon - congrats on 9 months! #163   babs609  Excellent bakon!! You are doing so great.  #164  dbwbakon said9 months- 270 days approximately.CONGRATULATIONS ON YOUR 9 MONTHS!Don #165  EmmaBunny Very nice, very thought-provoking post. Thanks, Bakon. And congrats on your nine months. #166  kinkash WTG Bakon. 1/4 way to Phartedom  #167  GlassgirlwCongrats on 9 months!!!! I can't wait until that's me! Huge inspiration to those of us just starting the quit so thanks!!  #168  Lynn04 Congratulations on 9 months quit!! Keep up the great work. Sounds like your are doing great keeping active too. Look at all of the positive changes you have made in the past nine months. Proud of you! I hope I can follow your lead! #169  Jude59 Congratulations on your 9 months. Well done. #170  bakon Posted 09 July 2013 - 09:04 AM9.5 months- All good.  New site. Thought I would post an update, but nothing big to report, no problem, no desire to smoke, so I thought I would copy and paste a post I did today to a newbie who quit with her spouse. And this can be switched to a husband or wife. I think the quit is hard and to have a partner the group needs to pressure them to stay quit together. Sure their quits are independant, but two should be stronger than one and we should push staying quit together.So this one is her first day and he smoked again a half day into the quit. Group is encouraging her to stay quit (all good) but forgot about him already. She asks if the smell will bother her. I say he can come back and still can quit with her, just grab NOPE and move on.   Its your quit but nothing says you cant get on his ass about his quit.  You will not find his smell pleasant and want to hug or kiss. Soon your nose will start to work and cigarettes will smell like a pile of crap. You also need to distance yourself from the smell. This is to help you want to stay quit. Show your husband this site,let him read this post, tell him I gave you the ok to be a bitch about it. Dont cave because he did. Quiting is hard. Tell him to grow a set and show he can do it to. Not ok anyomore  to have kids and smoke. This generation cant watch us and think "Dad's cool and he smokes." Time to be a man and a father and give the proper example. Wouldnt want one of thier teachers giving out smokes or saying its no big deal,so he shouldnt either. Never too late to be a role model. Have him join and get counters to show what you earned. Also give small treats or rewards each day the first week as a payoff for quiting. A magazine, a ice cream, a new air freshener for car. Anything you normally skip or wouldnt buy.  I am serious on how offensive the smell will be after a couple days and even brushing teeth wont remove the smell from his clothes or hair. Tell him less lovin and he might come back around. A quit buddy helps alot. This site does too. But sex is a true motivator on a primal level. #171   ChristaC  I love these success stories! Thanks for posting it, bakon! #172  bakon Posted 23 July 2013 - 11:58 PM10 months- Made it to mid summer and not one. NOPE. Hope my quit buddies are still marching. Havent heard from them or seen them here but life gets busy once you quit. Remember the boredom of first quiting...what am I going to do with myself after diner, while working... well dont know where I found the time to smoke.Was in the store today, wife standing next to me in a dog treat aisle, smell of something really foul comes over the area.I say "Man it smells bad here, like crap of something" I am thinking some dog did his business near the area since dogs are allowed in the store. What I didnt realize was a woman walked up and was looking at the same stuff and smelled of the worst burnt cigarette ever.Like an outside ashtray or a half burnt, stubbed out smoke in a pocket. Once I figure out its a smelly woman I have to cover my tracks so I say to the wife "If these treats smell like this, the dogs are never going to eat them. Lets get out of here." Woman didnt catch the remark was made for her but I know my wife did by her tone the way out of the store. So she's pissed I embarrassed her. Oh well no blood , no foul. #173  islandgirl Congratulations Bacon on your successful quit. I love hearing about your journey, very inspiring. Your right I do  deserve a treat...we all do!...I'm having fun thinking about what I can treat myself too tomorrow? I really love to take a shower, get clean clothes and hug all my friends and family, all day long, every day. Talk about freedom to love! Again thank you for stopping by, you put a big grin on my face, I thank you very much! #174  guy alex hey Bakon,thank you for putting a smile on my face this morning,i really enjoyed your story about the smelly woman.congratulations on the quit.#175  JTPhilly Congrats on 10 months Bakon!  #176  SallytheOwl Posted 24 July 2013 - 03:00 PMCongratulations on 10 months Bakon! I'm only at 2 and it feels like forever. You know how time flies when you're having a good time and basically comes to a grinding halt when you're not. Looking forward to making it to where you are. Thanks for the inspiration! #177  Gainesy71 Posted 24 July 2013 - 03:11 PMHi Bakon,good to know your doing fine.I like to check in and see how yourself and youngster are doing.Cant believe its only another 8 weeks to our 1 year anniversary,really proud of myself and very happy that your still about and flourishing.Take it easy my friend.Iain  #178  Cristobal Congratulations on 10 Months Bakon !!! I am stil trying to catch you, few weeks behind you in time, I hope I never catch you !!!  CristóbalDay 283#179  bakon Posted 26 August 2013 - 10:25 AM11 months-  two week trip on motorcycle and loved not having to pack two cartons of smokes and leave clothes behind. Hope youngster is doing fine, Gainsey was here last month so he should be checking in. Crysobal ansd freliz are stiff hanging.Time is flying now.  See some struggling on older members, but I think its just thoughts. Nobody really wants a puff. NOPE is still my motto but was thinking of "stress is for sissies" Don't think it would work though, people are too sensitive and would get insulted. Well off to lunch or bicycle ride later. Would never want to ride one a year ago, would have put me out of breath. Cant remember last time I was out of breath since I put the lighter down and threw the smokes out the window.  Keep marching it gets easier. #180  Gainesy71 Well done bakon.Pleased everything is going well.Take it easy my friend.
#181  SallytheOwl Thanks for the check-in bakon!  The next one will be your OP blowout party!  #182  Terri Congratulations on 11 months Bakon, thats fantastic.I can't wait to see myself where you are  #183  sintahbean I really appreciate you sharing, its inspirational for me..KTQ #184  bakon I still remember those first days. This board was great when someone posted a supportive message. Out of the blue a stranger helps with just a kind word, or saying what you feel is normal. Just a little shove knowing you are in the right direction. Then Crisobal made a year pledge post. I decided to Stick around for a year, pay it forward, help someone else but also myself by reminding where I came from and stay on the right path. I watch that Chantax commericial and see the fine print where they report a high percent of success "with support group". Thats what this place is. I took one pill that first day. Was expired by a year but the replies from the group on the second day are what got me through. Nothing fun in quiting, it was work, still is. But not hard after the first steps, gets easier with each one. Sometimes I relate it to the forced marches in the Army, put my head down and keep stepping, moving forward until it gets easy. Soon enough the momentum carries me forward, then it becomes down hill. Keep marching. #185  baffled Hey bakon, thank you for posting this thread and keeping it going.  I have read it through once already and now I go back to your posts that match up with where I am currently and it is helpful.  I especially like to read all about your rides and the keys.    By the way, I have my head down and I am marching!  #186  bakon Two weeks till the years mark. One amigo is missing for a few months but I think he will be back. Bunch of us will hit it within weeks of each other. Gainsey, Cristobal, Frezil, Mariem, Youngster, sure I'm missing a September/October quiter...Some already there who were new with me. Pretty exciting since I made the one year pledge to check in. Dont want to smoke and the smell keeps me away. Only think about it when I check in here or smell it in a distance. Up close it stinks. Again no desire and avoid it as much as possible. Got about 20 extra pounds in last year but didnt work very hard at keeping it off either. Summer is beer time and I enjoy summer. Fall got some good beer too so not worried about the extra me.Last night did an organized Harley/concert ride. 200 bikes going to ZZ Top and Kid Rock which had police escort and had premium parking, pre-ride party and [beeeep] grass seats. Good time, nice ride, saw many friends who rode and some who didnt ride but walked over to see group pull in. We had some beers. Only one guy in our group smoked but inside the concert- every other person was smoking. Got the headache from it. Music was great and weather too, my only complaint- smoke. Cigarette and dope. Guess I need to stay out of the cheap seats and stay in the seated area or other venues which dont have smoking (inside concerts have no smoking).Got to decide what my year treat will be...suggestions?  #187  SallytheOwl You will have racked up over $2000 in savings.  Anything in that price range jump to mind? #188  bakon Spent some of that at the $1000 mark. But maybe I can use the other $1000 on something good at Christmas. Not now, probably dinner and a motorcycle part in the $100 range, since everything Harley cost $100. I tell the newbies to treat themselves to something small all the time. Magazine, dinner, anything they would normally skip but would make them feel good as a reward for quiting. I think the early days of a quit are work, that most people dont appreciate, so those treats can keep the first week tollerable to the quiter. I bought a subway sandwich after my first hour. Going to do it again for lunch the day I hit a year for sure. Whole foot long too!You will have racked up over $2000 in savings.  Anything in that price range jump to mind?  #189  baffled Hey bakon.  I wanted to bump your thread because I like tracking my quit timeline with what you were going through at that time.  Plus I enjoy your posts.   This thread has been so helpful to my quit.  Thank you!!!! #190  Cristobal bakon, on 08 Sept 2013 - 4:16 PM, said: Two weeks till the years mark. One amigo is missing for a few months but I think he will be back. Bunch of us will hit it within weeks of each other. Gainsey, Cristobal, Frezil, Mariem, Youngster, sure I'm missing a September/October quiter... I know that Marcie, Frezlis, you, myself and my wife Miriam have kept our quits. I came to The Board at Day 36, but was watching in those early days the quits of other who had quit dates close to mine. Dancer unfortunately relapsed, I was hoping very much to celebrate my first year anniversary together with her, her quit date was 15 October, one day after mine. I have not seen Gainsey73 or Youngster for a long time...I really hope they come here and let us know they are OK. Both of them appeared to have strong, healthy quits the last time they posted comments. CristóbalDay 333 #191  bakon Gainsey added me as a friend recently so I know he's looking. About a week left till our year. I still post because of your idea on the year pledge. I do rarely think about smoking except when I check in here. I don't want one after posting, but it reminds me where I came from. Seeing the beginners struggle a little, I know that feeling. But I really come to pay it forward. The help I got from Babs or Breath, M, Hockeymom,  or Pilgrim, Kinkash, Katiem, there was so many I cant remember them all. Then meeting some quit buddies, youngster, you, freliz, jt philly, maciem, all the people starting at same place with close to same experience.then seeing some people with similar stories, or from close by to me Monojo, all nice times and cant be repaid to them. I try to pay it to the newer people. But like any story, this one got to end soon. In a week the story will be a year old and time for change. I really appreciate anyone who helped, and the board is moving forward with new batches of people that really push it on. Cristobal, Jimmy, Jenny, list can go on. But I have seen most members fade once they hit a year, and soon it must be me. Just a new phase in the quit. I know I missed a bunch of people here- but thanks to the whole group. I might have made it alone, but I know I did make it with your help. #192  kinkash Posted 13 September 2013 - 12:00 PMbakon, on 13 Sept 2013 - 09:43 AM, said:Gainsey added me as a friend recently so I know he's looking. About a week left till our year. I still post because of your idea on the year pledge. I do rarely think about smoking except when I check in here. I don't want one after posting, but it reminds me where I came from. Seeing the beginners struggle a little, I know that feeling. But I really come to pay it forward. The help I got from Babs or Breath, M, Hockeymom,  or Pilgrim, Kinkash, Katiem, there was so many I cant remember them all. Then meeting some quit buddies, youngster, you, freliz, jt philly, maciem, all the people starting at same place with close to same experience.then seeing some people with similar stories, or from close by to me Monojo, all nice times and cant be repaid to them. I try to pay it to the newer people. But like any story, this one got to end soon. In a week the story will be a year old and time for change. I really appreciate anyone who helped, and the board is moving forward with new batches of people that really push it on. Cristobal, Jimmy, Jenny, list can go on. But I have seen most members fade once they hit a year, and soon it must be me. Just a new phase in the quit. I know I missed a bunch of people here- but thanks to the whole group. I might have made it alone, but I know I did make it with your help.Many leave, but posting and responding....paying forward helps me KTQ...but I too think some days it's time move on...and pop in every now and then.KTQ! #193  marciem There was one more, a young man from New Zealand, EuaNZ, who quit around the same time as me, bakon, youngster and gainsey.  I haven't seen him around for a long time.  I just hope he kept the quit and found a great life down there   #194  bakon He posted on some of my early stuff too. Feliz made the year, I got a week to go today. No advise to share that isnt out there being said by everyone else. Had a good weekend ride and overnighter with some Blue Knights. One smoker in group. She was embarrassed by it and walked away to keep the smell from us. We were even in a smoking bar at one time and she went outside to smoke. Partly so we didnt see I think. AND not cool to be a smoker anymore. Total 180 from when most of us started, so we would be cool. But noticed that ich on her. Every stop, first thing in morning outside, slave to the nicotine. Got to calm that urge. Smoking defiantely causes more stress than it removes. That calm is only temporary, once the level drops the stress starts going back up. Guess I'll comment on stress. I work a very stressful job and think I have very little stress in my life. Seriously can have 30 things happening at once in three locations with danger in all of it, and I feel like its not a problem 99 percent of time. As long as people do what they are supposed to do, thing roll along fine. But people cant do that, and thats where I have to get involved. I hear "stress caused..." so much that stress has very little value to me. Probably why it does work as an excuse for bad behavoir to me. I remember back to the Army and there is no acceptable excuse for not listening or following directions. Try to give one and more likely to get more pushups or running or duty, whatever the Sgt felt like dealing out. Easier to take your lumps and say "No excuse drill sgt."Smoking because of stress just sounds stupid. Smoking only builds it. I watch the ich on people now. On a call...someone will ask "Can I have a smoke and I will tell you what happened?" I make them wait a few more minutes, let that stress build more on them, more likely to tell the truth and get to the point when under pressure. Why let them fire up and relax? Let them formulate some reason or excuse or lie to get out of whatever stupid thing they did? Just another observation. Like a referee of life...I just call it like I see it.Lets have a good week as the ride is coming to an end soon. #195  sintahbean Here is to a good week Bakon, will miss the ride with you.Do drop in every now and then.  #196  bakon A new member, firefly, is a friend. Everyone jump in and give her a hand when she posts.  #197  HonorAmongstThieves Oh this is emotional, and I am not even involved. lol. I cannot wait to be where you are now.But I will trek on, one day at a time until I get there. Thank you for this late night motivation. #198  SickofCigs9813 Bakon, I am new, and you are marking your one year anniversary date. I have read every single one of your posts, from beginning to end, and now... your 1 yr date implies that you are leaving. I have gotten SO much out of your fascinating posts. Interesting to note, that where you live, that bars allow smoking in them STILL. It has been outlawed in Calif, for over 20 yrs. (or thereabouts) Also FYI, they outlawed smoking at public beaches here too. I guess they didn't want the sand to become 'one big ashtray..' lol bad joke. In bigger workplace bldgs and even some not so big, they have signs that say, no smoking within 20 ft, of bldg. As early on, as cali was for the crack down on cigs, I am surprised that it is allowed in other states to this day. I hope you don't 'move on' from this group and the one year mark and consider it done for you in here. Your journal is great, but perhaps u feel u have said all u need to say at this juncture. well, maybe not... addiction never leaves us, it is simply arrested. I ve lost count of the x's I've quit, over time, but feel I don't have another shot at recovering anymore, this is the last hurrah. I've managed to live this long, (in denial about it killing me), dispite the loss of an ex bf who died 5 yrs ago, this past sept 5th, and was too young. he smoked on his death bed, and never once tried to quit. Reading you, was worth staying up in the wee hrs for. I hope you do return to us again, soon. Thank you. #199  bakon Posted 22 September 2013 - 05:44 PMTwo more days by my count. But will wait to see what counter says tomorrow. Going for beers and Steeler game now. #200  kinkashI love this matchup
#201  PeppermintFizz So inspirational!!CASSIE #202  bakon24 September 2013 - 09:11 AMCounter said"1 year 1 hour since last cigarette. $2007.72 saved 7301 smokes avoided" 1 year done. 1 hour working on next one year.  Like an accomplishment and a continuation of the work involved. Going for a Subway sandwich in an hour. That's how the ride started. Been downhill for a while but even still the group pushed me there. Advise to anyone- stay close enough to board that someone in here remembers your name. Good feeling to post after a week or three and see a familiar face. Also NOPE. Cant say it enough. Recommend everyone repeat it whenever you THINK its ok to maybe touch something which gives a puff. Don't play with fire. First weeks of crawling turn into a walk, then a march. Keep marching. Put your head down and plow forward at times, but soon it turns down hill and the ride gets to be easy. It was quick to become easy for me. Just a month or two and I think it was downhill. But I am on my guard too. I got lucky and it quickly was a foul smell to me. But also not completely done, some thought about smoking here or there, out of the blue, which isn't completely gone and still work to stay away from. So fight on, your stronger with every crave conquered, the roller coaster is worth it. Thank you to all my friends here I made it. Keep Marching #203  Nancy.We will keep marching! #204   ChristaC  Thanks, Bakon! Loved to read the thread....inspiring me to keep on climbing, because I want to be where YOU are!  #205  Sgt.Sausagebakon, on 24 Sept 2013 - 09:11 AM, said: Counter said"1 year 1 hour since last cigarette. $2007.72 saved 7301 smokes avoided" 1 year done. Well done, Mr. Bakon. The Sarge salutes you. Well done. Easy Peasy  #206  sparklingabyss Congrats on a whole year!  #207  jimmy009+1 ill keep marching#208  bakon Posted 07 October 2013 - 03:47 PM1year 2 weeks or so. Sticking around a little to see the last Amigo hit his year. Plus like teasing Scott and Jimmy and some of the girls. Baffled posted about the habit and changing seasons, adjusting to not smoking even after awhile and having a trigger pop out of the blue. Not that I want to smoke but I looked at a half a smoke laying near a door the other day and thought "I used to put them out and sit them on a wall to light when I came back out." Anyways- I walked out of work late the other night. Like 20 minutes late and in hurry to get home. Always had time for 1 smoke on ride home and usually not finsihed when I pulled in driveway. Let dogs out and finish last couple puffs. So I know I'm in hurry and instead of firing up in truck I guess my routine was to fire up on way to truck so I could ge the whole thing done.So a year after quiting I am walking through the lot at work going toward truck, patting my pockets, looking for a lighter I no longer carry, to fire up a smoke I dont have, so I can finish it before I hit the house and go inside.Got to truck and I am patting again, double checking to find it. Need to find it before I unlock the door, need to get it lit before I get in truck and I am carrying other items. So I am switching them around in my hands and patting with the other hand, then realized I still havent found it and had to laugh. I didnt want a smoke, but that habit was still in my pea sized brain somewhere. Also dreamed about running last night- needed to run because I got a physical training test coming up and I smoke, so got to practice running before test.....Been out of Army 25 years now. Dont know where that thought was hiding. Changing title to pea brain. Had village idiot but that got used against me by an angry woman in here.#209  kinkash You rock Bakon! JT Philly posted something similar a few weeks back. It's all good!  #210  baffled Needed to repost Bakon at his point in my quit.  His quit seems so similar to mine that I like to know what he was thinking and posting at the same stages.  Thought it might help others as well.  Thank you thank you Bakon. #211  billquit Bakon..you're a full fledged inspiration! I sure appreciate you and I'm real proud of you! #212  kinkash billquit, on 12 Oct 2013 - 09:21 AM, said:Bakon..you're a full fledged inspiration! I sure appreciate you and I'm real proud of you!+10000 #213  bakon 13 months and quit is very enjoyable. As time goes by, the bad memories of old relationships fade and only the good remain. My quit is like that. I have to think of something to find the bad in the quit. Sure I had moments of crawling skin and flying off the handle. But the end results are so good, so worth it, and so far from the cage of just a year ago, I cant think that it was too hard. I hope everyone reaches this point. Lot of posters recently saying it's getting easier. I tell them that's the downhill side of the march. I also think that as smokers, the first couple hurdles in quiting seem so steep that we postpone quiting. Then we start and they knock us down, hard. Moods, hunger, chemicals making us fart, break out and not sleep. We got to face the hardest part first, no easing in to it. So the failure rate in first week is highest, second week that goes down, continuing to ease with each day/week/month. But not a steady down, more a square function. , like gravity accelleration, 9.82 m/s2. Time is squared for how far it eases up. Sometimes there's a post with someone still struggling a month in and not easing up, usually some NRT going on nobody knew was happening and the nicotine hasnt left the building yet. I dont care how long you havent puffed, its not going to ease up till you quit the nic.Also love the saying a puff away from a pack a day- that and NOPE are my favorites. As for me, most of my quit buddies are at the year now. I would recommend staying close that first year. Some recent people come back who would have months to a year now, only to start again. Group is good about that, but I feel like it was a waste to let it go. The best posts to me are when they come back and dont gloss over the relapse. They say how disappointing it was. How the smoke didnt help. Some sit here fantisizing for nothing. Relapsers are the proof. Just ask a smoker if he would trade places with you, you give them the hard work and your one week quit and they give you the pack...they will take it. They cant get over that first hurdle.  Someone started a Million Dollar to Smoke thread recently. I cant say I wouldnt for that, but I wouldnt for the sake of just "having one." Too big of a risk for no reward. The relapsers all say that first one was so disappointing. See someone come back, ask them to post their thoughts when they got that first one in. Failure and disappointment.Someone had a line like "When we smoked we wished we were here. Now here we sometimes want to be there" Remember we dont want to smoke. That life is gone. SO for me- Easy Cheesy.Keep Marching  #214  bakon  1y 1m 17 d-Dont bump it up much because I dont have much to add. I dont struggle but an occasional thought does pop up. Not an urge, just a thought. Saw a lighter on the dash of a car the other day. Pushed it in to see if it worked. Came out glowing like new. Thought "This is a good one, heated up fast." Then put it back. Remember burning them out in my truck. Worn out from too much use. Could smell smoke a mile away now. Still dont like it. Gym is easy now than a year ago. So much more lung capacity. Walk twice as far, twice as fast, sweat but dont loose my breath. Smell things I haven't since being a kid. Lemons, real ones, not cut but on display. Could never smell that as a smoker. Sure I could smell lemon cleaners, or a fresh cut one. But not one with the peel on sitting a distance away. Teeth- whiter and no problems. Smile is improved. Skin too. I can see the gray in a smoker. Still marching. Head up and moving forward.  #215  Cristobal I am so happy that you are doing well. I understand many things in your last 2 posts, because I am at the same time in my quit as you. Where are Gainsey and Youngster ??? Are the 3 Musketeers only 1.5 now (You are 1, I am one half.).  #216  bakon Youngster is missing but Gainesy checked in at a year and doing well. Three amigos is now you me and Gainesy. M and Freliz are right there with us too. Your way more than a half. #217  bakon 14 months- all is well. Cristobal's name is still hard to spell for me but is still here posting away too. I always start typing CHRist....then got to go look at it again. I think English is my second language on the keyboard. Saw BABS, Sgt, Kinkash, and a few others post in the last week from last fall. M and Breath, Greenlover, Mojo. Got some crazy new ones too- looks like board is moving on just with enough flavors of personality to keep interesting. The owl is 6 months in. NK, Christa, Bill, baffled Jimmy, Jenny all in the middle grounds, months around 6 but less than 12. Never much into the fart titles. I think of brand new, less than month, 2-4,5-8, those 9-12 are old timers, then the big year and more group. I get titles, just don't use them in my head. Some pretty faces on some too on the avatars!! Scott from PA hasn't been hassled in a while about his pic, so I'll throw him in with pretty people. If I missed your name it only because my pea brain cant hold that much.(Saw the angry swimmer too, she cant see me though, only person I know blocked me. Funny is when she posts about NRT and her struggles at the beginning. Kind of verifies what I was trying to tell her on why her anger wasn't fading, just laugh to myself. It would be worth a warning point to say "I told you so" with my hand up showing her the international symbol for friendship. ) Notice I only wrote about the group. No smoking thoughts, only thoughts of some friends on the quit smoking group and check in to see how they are. Bike season is over, go around block now and then, but got smarter as I got older and don't go out much this time of year. Big plans next year already forming up. Going to hit the south. Big circle ,with PA and Ohio, about 15 states, including some places from the recent picture thread places. We are going to stop in Redstone Arsenal-Huntsville Alabama. Old Army post I was at for about 2 years. Hope to see some marching going on so I can get a photo. I could seach google for one I suppose. I did hit the chat button twice in last month. Both times I didn't know what I was doing. But one time I was only one in room. When I looked back Soul was in there. She was the fouth person to ever post to my thread and one of the original people I remember. So I start to write that and she Kieser Sozied "Poof " Soul left the room." Couldn't tell her what help she was that first week. I didnt know I had to be fast. Sat there looking at the screen with all I typed and nobody to read it left. Just me in an empty room that doesn't really exist as a physical space. The other time someone yelled "BAKON" and they scared me out of the room. (Was at work really but those chat rooms are a little scary) Otherwise just a lurker mostly.Keep Marching.  #218  Guest_susana_* I hope that is not a farewell post....  ... You have been a great support to me on these last few months. During and after my relapse. I don´t want you to go without knowing how much I appreciate your input and your non-judgmental tone. 14 Months tomorrow.... SUPER-MEGA-GREAT!!!  #219  SallytheOwl I never get tired of hearing how people have no more thoughts of smoking anymore. Keep those inspirations coming, Bakon. Congrats on your solid and comfy quit. Love it. #220  Nancy. Bakon, you are the best!
Well done.  Very good to see such success.
thanks trouble
Great thread Bakon
I made blog- but think something wont be right...attached external link to blog or something like that...think it will disappear if they delete it over there, plus I believe it is linking me over to the other place, which is not what I want. Any comments go over there? definitely not what I want? HELP  ok think I exteral linked this thread now...but blog this don't work.   I am computer dangerous, not good, not bad, no facebook or Skype, just slow moving news groups and threads. so pictures sometimes even get me but lately got some photosomething account and posted through there. anyways someone with the control buttons want to fix this mess, please remove my blog, don't know how it works and figure I did something wrong because when I hit blog this, it still says I don't have one, probably something to do with external link.Then come delelte this plea. my finger hurtys and I cant type no more todasy. I don't think you ever created a blog and instead just hit "blog this" because your blog is external only.  I'll delete the blog and you can create a new one and then blog each entry so it's all in your blog.  Once that's done, you can add all your new entries to your blog instead of this thread.  :)
Done.  Now just create your blog and I can help you with the rest.  :) FYI, I deleted all the links.  :)
bakonPosted 10 December 2013 - 03:44 AM1y2m17d. Cold out. Nothing to report. Sgt has disappeared. Cristobal has taken over the numbers game. Freliz been seen here and there. Lots of people have replaced the pharters. Don't like old pharters for a name but that's what we are called here. Told the thread we are the Pharos yesterday. Misspelled intentionally. We hit a year and we now rule.No smoking thoughts. Was at a stinking smoking bar last week for way too many beers. Paid the price next day. I blame the smoking and stench one time years ago while stationed in West Germany I drank way too much rum. That captain has been beating me up for years. But back to the point. I had a hang over so bad it hurt to blink. I blamed cigarettes and quit for a year. Both cigarettes and rum. Then 13 years ago I was back on rum kick. Captain beat me up again so no more rum. Fun on the beer so I stick to that. Rum and I turn Indian with muscles. Vodka I can't see less than two of everyone. Whiskey and I can't hold it down. One shot and everything comes back up. Strictly a beer hound. Have tried just about everyone but only have a few a month. Usually all at same time but last week I had two months worth. So it wasn't beers fault. It was the smoke and stink. That's my story and I'm sticking to it.Point of story. I have quit this long before. Don't like sticky quit but will say permanent one. No desires. Really dislike the smell. Can't see myself chained to that ball again. Especially in this cold , huddled around to get the fix to feel better. Such a bad habit. I like seeing the newbies at a day. Three days. A week. You can feel the excitement in some posts. Then read three months, relaxing some. Six. Well on way to permanent. Anything longer and they are Pharos to me. They rule the boardKeep marching. Lots of celebrations happening. #222   JTPhilly  Great post Bakon. Funny I used to live smoky bars thought the smoke assed to the atmosphere! I'm with you on the rum and vodka lol bit I like my whiskey.  #223   juanrmartino Posted 10 December 2013 - 06:26 AMBakon your post is priceless! Now better than yesterday, and how you describe things full of energy and optimistic, you inspire... im happy for you!  #224   Nancy. Posted 10 December 2013 - 09:26 AMnomorerumever Just channeling the Sarge!  I love your posts, Bakon! #225   Daisyjane2013 Posted 10 December 2013 - 11:59 AMBakon, I just read all the posts in this thread dating back to the beginning. It was really inspirational to read. Thanks for taking us along on your journey! P.S. I can't do whiskey either, Makes me crazy. Every night that started with a shot of whiskey has ended badly or in a bizarre way. Rum is fun when you're in the Caribbean, otherwise, I have to stay away. Tequila brings back some embarrassing memories from Spring Break 2001. lol! Don't ask. Beer & wine only for me too  #226   bakon "A man got to know his limitations"  Dirty Harry #227   mattjones36Posted 10 December 2013 - 03:58 PMbakon, on 10 Dec 2013 - 03:44 AM, said:It's funny you say that. When I drank (past tense, very past tense) Crown Royal and Coke, I became the Mexican Monster. Rum and I turn Indian with muscles.  #228   PetraPetraAgent 13 Great reading, Bakon!!!!  Thank you so much for being here!   #229   bakonI never turned more redneck from beer though. Maybe I cant get more redneck? (Not county redneck, not grown up redneck)Thinking about "reading from beginning" like Daisy did. So I started and got too tired to finish. I can give one update...MY SON MOVED OUT. Its sooo nice. See him weekly but glad he grew wings.   #230   baffled bakon, on 10 Dec 2013 - 1:12 PM, said: "A man got to know his limitations"  Dirty Harry With you on this one!  I don't drink very often, maybe 2 or 3 times a month when out with friends.  Husband doesn't touch the stuff.   Since I quit smoking though, I cannot drink as much and I get hang overs now.  I am blaming not smoking cigarettes.  Hopefully its not a function of age .... BUT I love rum.  Mmmmmm.  #231   bakon Posted 12 December 2013 - 03:47 AMI love rum too. Just that captain fights me every time and I lose every time. Beer never gets mad at me and makes everybody more interesting and better looking. Especially the non smokers. Smokers look funny to me when drinking. Got to light up more cuz the alcohol removes the nicotine from blood faster actually feel pity for them because they can't help themselves. At least hang overs now don't have that sore throat and yuk mouth from over smoking.  #232   baffled Posted 13 December 2013 - 07:20 AMI don't know what was worse before, the hangover or the sore throat and yuk mouth --- and sore chest from smoking so many extras while drinking.  Ughh.  Beer goggles, huh?  Too funny.    #233   bakon 1y 3m 1d- Christmas. Nice to not smoke on my second Christmas. Food taste better. No need to go outside in cold or sit in garage. 9150 plus smokes missed. That's a whole lot of bad breath missed, so definitely more smooching going on this Christmas. Placed a chair under mistletoe to eat cookies and kiss. Anyone want to stop by I am home. $2500 saved. Not really. Been rewarding myself. Got a Harley automatic winding watch and a large toolbox/workbench for myself for being so good this year. Santa doesn't pay enough attention to really know how good,... so I treated myself. All quiters need to do that. Reward yourself.  Keep marching. (Drummer boy music on right now.)Attached Thumbnails  #234   Cristobal Posted 25 December 2013 - 12:48 PMBakon, I am glad you are doing so well, I am very sure that you will never smoke again. Where are Youngster and Gainesy, still no news about your first quit buddies the original 3 amigos ???  #235   bakon Nope, just me and you as Amigos.Maybe I hit that 10  year mark and ride down your way.Get me one of those hats like you and eat some authentic Mexican food. #236   Nancy. Good job, Bakon!  You have been so much help to me!  Love the drummer boy...  #237   Cristobal I am very proud to be your replacement quit amigo, I always watched your posts because you were ahead of me only a few weeks. You are very welcome to come and visit you do not need to wait for 10 year anniversary, any time of the year is fine, and winters are sunny, warm and dry !!! (28C - 82F today). The wine, tequila and food are always wonderful----and yes I can get you a hat like this......you will not want to go back home. #238   bakon That's why I want to wait 10 years. Got some things to finish first before I get to take naps after lunch. #239   bakon Posted 03 January 2014 - 09:40 AM1y3m10d Bump cause I cant copy and paste it. Rolling through New Years just fine. Smelled it yesterday. Actually tasted it as I walked into somebody's cloud. Glad I don't have that taste stuck to my tongue anymore. Coating my teeth with yellow. I watch people who say they cook, then see them outside smoking. I know they cant taste what I do. Remember the temperature being very important. If it wasn't hot then it didn't matter what the taste. Probably cause all the taste buds were coated with tar and crap. New years Resolution- No biggie, just slow down and enjoy what I already got. Enjoy the small stuff I guess. And add new colors to my crayon box.Attached Thumbnails Keep Marching. #240   Gainesy71 Posted 05 January 2014 - 05:51 AMGainesy is still alive!!,still quit with no intensions of quitting the quit.Have been in and out of hospital for the last 4 months after an accident so have not really been lurking.Glad you are all doing well.
2y2m1w4d  16,052 missed $4414.00 saved today!   16k?  how high is that stack of packs? 66 feet high if each pack is just an inch thick. 20 meters for you metric goofs...
Add another month or so...too many in here choosing to smoke or quit on their quit....bump up for window lickers
Julie and Bt in here (Wiley) when he was a fish, evolution I guess bakon Holy crapfish batman. We are back to three with Gainsey.  Tell us more about the accident. Glad your back for sure. Need three to be Amigos, (and we got a real Mexican too.)  #242   Gainesy71Holy crapfish batman. We are back to three with Gainsey.  Tell us more about the accident. Glad your back for sure. Need three to be Amigos, (and we got a real Mexican too.) Hi Bakon,glad your still around and prospering.I got knocked off my bicycle back in October and broke a leg,fractured pelvis,broken arm and a few other minor injuries.The chap who knocked me off was an old fella in his early nineties who panicked when he saw me and just couldn't control his car.Nice old boy who has my utmost admiration as he was a spitfire pilot during Battle of Britain so I hold no ill feeling towards him.....it was an accident after all.He has retired from driving!! And comes to see me regularly and I'm doing ok and should make a full recovery.Whatever happened to youngster....any ideas?.....although it's cool having an authentic amigo in the pack!!. #243   CristobalPosted 07 January 2014 - 11:32 AMI am so happy to finally have news about you Gainsey !!! I am sorry to see that you had the accident I hope you have complete recovery from this, let us know how you are doing and also big congratulations to ypu that you are now a Olde Pharte !!! #244   Gainesy71you cris,very kind. #245   bakon Glad your back too. My hope is youngster is just busy. Never heard otherwise so giving him the benefit here. Far as accident, I knew you were not smoking. Saw you check in once, but anyways you got some story there. I wish I had an old vet to feed me a couple stories. Great attitude you kept. Hope your back on feet soon. And keep posting, not too many old timers (I dont use farts) helping out here. Got to pay it forward a little bit longer, then ride off to Mexico where its always sunshine and rainbow farts. #246   bakon Posted 24 January 2014 - 10:38 AM1y4m1h  16 monthsLiked when I logged on today and saw the extra 1 hour. Like my first post. Made it one hour and got a sandwich. Belly is not so big after this long. About 12 pounds more than start and I dont mind. Always say curves are good for the girls, why not the guys too? What I will comment on is missing smoking. When I quit I knew what I was in for. I had done it before when younger. Thought that made me a good smoker because I had quit a few times for over a year. Why was that good? Because in the circle of smoke, I was tough enough to say I could do it, I just didnt want to. Liked it to much to quit but I could and I got my past quits to prove it. So why didnt I quit? I thought I would miss it. How could sitting in the garage, putzing with my tools or motorcycle be any fun without lightin up and having a smoke hanging from my lip? I love smoking and putzing. Riding, drinking, chores anything with smoking. Where is fun if no smoke? I was one who could close one eye because the smoke was going in it, while leaned in, reaching around the back of an engine with both hands to tighten something. Still puffing, cause thats how you do it. Well it takes some time to relearn everything without the smoke. I kept at the putzing and earned my degree as a Doctorate of Putzers. I wash and wax anything. Tighten any bolt and adjust thingerabobs in my sleep. I cut the grass, drive to work, drive at work, drive home from work, putz and drink beer all without thinking about smoking at all. Not missing it one bit. Not sure when I started to enjoy all this again without smoking. I know I enjoy not smoking and I enjoy putzing, just not sure when I started enjoying them together.It happens though. You reach a point where its all back to normal, just no smoke.(pictures removed)  #247    Soberjulie  Posted 24 January 2014 - 10:44 AMI just read through all of this thread.Amazing. Simply amazing Bakon, thankyou for keeping a kind of QSMB journal. Watching the days click by for you is inspiring to read about  #248   ArmedNAruba Posted 24 January 2014 - 11:23 AMKiller accordion concert dude!!!  #249   bakon Octoberfest at Penn Brewery in Northside. I did spend three years in Germany with the ARMY. Was even there when the wall came down.  Accordians-Cant say I love it, but it does make me smile after a few beers. Beer, love it all the time. #250   ArmedNAruba Posted 24 January 2014 - 11:58 AMGotta love the country's traditions!! #251   bakon Posted 27 January 2014 - 09:18 AM9800 missed...  #252   Guest_WileyD_* Thanks Bacon. I enjoyed that. Very helpful. I was in Germany 85 to 89 in the Air Force near K-Town. #253   bakonPosted 27 January 2014 - 10:02 AMI was on Bitburg airbase for meals and mail. Lived on housing for about a year too. Its a civilian air strip now. I googled it. Spangdollem was 1 air miles away and 10 km by road. We drove by occasionally on way to a sight. Was at K-town about every couple months to shop at bigger BX/PX or to go to our battalion hq for something. Had a Burger King and was a treat. Was there from 12/86 to 1/90.  #254   Guest_WileyD_* I was at Sembach AB. I miss the Brew & the Food. I loved it there. #255   bakon Posted 27 January 2014 - 10:44 AMDont think I ever stepped on that one. What planes mostly? was that the A-10 base? There was one of those down there. Bitburg had F-15 and Spang had F-16 with F-4 (I think). I was in Missiles, defending the air bases hiding in woods. We were to shoot down enemy planes attacking the bases. I guess when the air force was sleeping, we had to watch over...just kidding. But when we ran PT on base we couldnt sing cadence songs, we were waking up the air force to early. No kidding, the base commander said we wouldnt be allowed to PT in their gym first (cold and wet outside all year in germany) with push ups, sit ups and all the crazy army jump and whatevers. Then we would go run as group, but no singing until flight line because we woke the AF up. We loved that. Also had SGT Major who hated all those officers in blue that were pilots, so when we saluted we were to say "HAWK (our missile) If it flies, it dies" We didnt, cause most pilots couldnt give a s*** if we saluted or not. They were on a different level, like playboys of the military. Envied those guys.  #256    Soberjulie  Posted 27 January 2014 - 11:28 AMBakon, you were there when the wall came down? How cool.I had a patient who was there when the wall went up! She was just a kid.She was suffering from mild dementia when she was my patient and talked about the wall all the time.One day I found some pictures and told her the wall wasn't there anymore.....they took it down.She was so shocked. When she finally believed me she cried like a baby. She said "maybe now there can be real neighbor-li-ness"#257   Kennedy Yes this really does help!!! He gets it!!! Or he did... Thanks for sharing this  #258   baffled Posted 27 January 2014 - 02:16 PMKennedy, on 27 Jan 2014 - 2:13 PM, said:Yes this really does help!!! He gets it!!! Or he did... Thanks for sharing this I used to go back to this thread at various times in the early stages of my quit because it was so helpful.  I wish there were more journals kept like this.  You may want to start one now.  That way, in a year when someone new comes along, they can look to your thread and say the same thing about you.  It really is weird though that you think all these people with time had an easy quit and that is the only reason they are fine today.  Not true.  We were all where you are now.  You will get to where we are before you know it.  One day at a time.   #259   bakon Posted 27 January 2014 - 02:34 PMOnly one guy really chanted easy peazy. A few seemed to get the right mind set early but most everyone goes through same thing. A couple people were big cheerleaders, posting for everyone and very helpful. I notice most of the old timers for me arent around. A few are still here, but most were less than a year ahead of me and moved on. Soon the newbies become the old timers. It really is quick.  Start a journal is good idea. When this began, people posted "day 1 ... day 2... day 5 ... day whatever". If couldnt judge how it was going unless I had seeen and remembered what they said. We are all here to learn, get support, or pay forward what we took from others. Along the way you meet some nice people. I got to pay it forward with this. One guy said he read this several times but only posted 1 time to this board, ever. Told me thanks. That was a great day.  Started this for me, but glad I got to share it.  #260   bakon Posted 06 February 2014 - 04:20 PM10,000 smokes missed. About 37 full days of smoking.  Don't miss it. I can smell the stale smoke on a smoker's clothes about 20 feet away without one burning. I can see the gray in their skin. Not much else to add. Advise I would give today....- NOPE.  it works.  Note 3-11-15   2 years, 5 months, 2 weeks, 2 days, 11 hours, 34 minutes, 24 seconds. That translates into 17,969 cigarettes NOT smoked, for a savings of $5,390.89! At 5 minutes per cigarette I have increased my life expectancy by 2 months, 6 days, 9 hours, 28 minutes, 13 seconds.
Nothing new except I don't know where I even had time to puff. Stick with NOPE and you can't fail  Peace. Out
Just a bump up
This journey has been a fantastic read Bakon....very inspirational for a Newbie. Best part of all is you did it! You won! Nope works. 
Thanks....just some pushes and shoves from people here and NOPE....all it takes...not really, its a relearn of basic habits and ways but once each is done it gets easier. Each holiday or season, chore or hobby....don't know how I did have time for it. Probably 20 lbs heavier, good 15 anyways, but its all good weight. Was too thin for height because I didn't eat good. Now I work out regular, watch what I eat and biggest health improvement is lungs, I can walk, run or climb stairs, ride bikes hike or whatever...activities I would pass on before because I would be short of breath before others, not weaker, just looked weaker when you cant breath after five times running up and down basketball court...So I still preach CURVES ARE GOOD.  Don't let weight gain bother you. As for gym, just go and move, don't matter what you do, just move.
You are right Bakon. I would rather have the CURVES  than the stink. I would rather be able to move & breathe. I would rather accomplish what you have. That will take time but I'm going to do it. I'm very stubborn.  And I WILL move 
Three more months. Pretty boring quit now. Hit three years soon and feel the fade. The train seems to have the elite quiters, most old timers that check in have gotten so busy with life. Time to roll. Like to see all the progress people made here. The group as a whole is pretty exceptional. People quit here and change their whole life. Kids, houses remodeled, jobs, bike riding, marathons, and the friends come and go. Met one in person and if I really wanted to, close enough to visit a couple others. Thing is, outside of here, we all have a bunch of stuff going on and don't know when we had time to smoke. And after discussing some of the characters in here and laughing we would move on and miss the person even more. So its good the summer picnic never happened. Good because we can all think of how great it will be when it does happen. SO smile and move on. As for quiting advise. I post threads with hints and tricks, ideas and suggestions. But only one thing remains common to all quits.... NOPE.    and that's all I got to say about that.....Forest Gump and Bakon
this thread really clicked with my rollercoaster life. though i have never done drugs, which most associate with addiction...smoking is exactly the same thing. if not worse. strength is hard to find sometimes.weakness is harder to admit. the first step is making an honest change...with yourself.i dont feel so weird about posting all my shit on here. happy anniversary, bakon!
Couple more months. Easy peasy
Two more.  No sweat
Two more. No sweatMrs. check up okay?
All good. Check some levels in blood
Rolling and bump forNewbies
Little more time in Easy peasyLemon something Please don't feel all aloneThe Train is a Place to callHome
Little more time in Easy peasyLemon something Please don't feel all aloneThe Train is a Place to callHome Is it not amazing how the event of quitting smoking just disappears from your life ??? All the changes, dealing with the triggers, the adjustments a person experiences at the beginning of a quit eventually disappear completely from impacting your life. And then once the addiction is put to sleep, you find yourself alone with just *YOU* - not you *AND* the addiction. The feeling of freedom is just incredible, and it stays with you and grows as long as you do not smoke.  Cristóbal
Four years......its easy now. Someone posted lately "when were you confident in your quit?" I posted "Tomorrow". I believe I was sure a long time ago, but to be sure I will say Tomorrow I will know for sure. When you ask tomorrow I will say the same thing. I don't want to jinx it. Someday that answer might be "soon", but I wont give a date to be sure. What have I learned- nothing. I am still the village idiot and enjoy the position. Want advise- keep looking, plenty of folks to tell you right way in details. I am much better with the one liners and quick pokes. Say something dumb, I will see it and tell you. As for the group, good bunch of people, even let a couple of you in on Buddybook. Some of you would be a blast to have a beer with, some of you are stalker crazy and that's what makes it fun. Goal for the next year- meet a few more in person Regret- Biggest is not crashing the wedding and second biggest is falling for Sonic's trick of inviting me every few months to meet somewhere and he leaves me standing looking for a dance partner. Burritto would probably do the same if on the island but I think the Mexican would really show up. (Nancy too) Advise for others- slow down and enjoy the quit. Don't rush to be done, cause its never done, it just fades to the background at times.
Four more months. Back in the gym. No struggle breathing.  Still smell it a mile away. Wish o could think of a catchy phase like NOPE but for the smell. For women it would be Don't smoke.Smell like a girl. You get the idea. 
Four more months. Back in the gym. No struggle breathing. Still smell it a mile away. Wish o could think of a catchy phase like NOPE but for the smell.For women it would be Don't smoke.Smell like a girl. You get the idea. I smell it miles away. For some reason i actually like the smell of fresh tobacco. Cant stand the smell on clothes though, jesus you smell a smoker across the room.
Four more months. One smoking dream. Weird 
One more month and some days
Long time-----My thoughts on be accountable to YOUR own self and quit  Actions determine outcome and outcomes inform actions. Be accountable. Taking complete ownership of your outcomes by holding no one but yourself responsible for them is most powerful thing you can do to drive your success. Accountable people absorb setbacks and keep going. Accountable people persevere and keep pushing forward. They are results oriented and never defend actions, skills, models or relationships that don't get job done. When life happens you can be the author of your life or the victim of it. Those are your only two choices- accountable or unaccountable  Most successful quits are done by those with this in mind. We can all help push but your feet have to want to move. 
Great post..and so true...x
Four more months. Back in the gym. No struggle breathing. Still smell it a mile away. Wish o could think of a catchy phase like NOPE but for the smell. For women it would be Don't smoke.Smell like a girl. You get the idea.SLAG!!!
I still post just to pay it forward but have to admit I also like teasing the shit out of people
Worth a read for any newbies or lurkers out there!
Thanks.
5 years. Don't know how many I didn't smoke by now but was a pack a day so I will call it a bunch. Money, didn't save a dime. Spent it on beer and one woman. Changes- health feels better. Better shape and no worry about what's in the future. Used to think at times I might have problems later, not Now. And if I do it's dumb luck, not something I could avoid. Nice worry to throw away.As for smoking....I don't want to, don't need to and certainly don't plan to, BUT after a few beers last night thought out loud with a few other previously smokers "I would have one if...." Our ideas of if were stupidly delusional but we all said we missed it if just a little...So danger present even if only .001% probable at this point. Don't ever let your guard down.Now to the celebration part...no Subway, five years means the wife will be naked at some point, beer and beef.  And finally the thank you part...thank you everyone who ever posted, to all the eggs a special treat to be delivered in person.  To the window lickers I send my laughs. And to anyone who ever just read my mindless ramblings THANKS. And as Porky says at the end...that that that's all folks
    Bump
    Thanks for bumping that great post, Bakon.  I was on a plane when you posted that and totally missed it!  Comforting to see what there is to look forward to by just keeping the NOPE and putting one foot in front of the other.  Oh yeah, that's what you always say: "Keep marching."  Good advice.  It's working for me so far. 
Couple more months. Swear I coughed  today and tasted smoke. Not really but was in a smoking bar last week and bothered me at first.     But I could see without education how quits get fudged up in a bar.  Thanks to you animals, I am safe.  Don't reply to smoking threads, out of the loop on some newbies and fear insulting someone who don't get my humor.  So retired to socialize stuff, which is fun but taking a break from checking in five times a day. I will hit up for anniversary dates.Good luck to all in the year to come, may sunshine up your rear and make you warm and fuzzy. If you need to reach me anytime ask Nancy she can point you to me on buddybook.Keep Marching.Edited January 6, 2018 by bakon
    Hope you show up at times Bakon! I laughed at your Window Licker comments & valued your advice. You will be missed. But....enjoy your naked woman & beer...now that you’re a non smoker there’s more to life than The Quit ? We’ll all look forward to your Social Check In’s!!! ?
23 minutes ago, bakon said: Don't reply to smoking threads, out of the loop on some newbies and fear insulting someone who don't get my humor.  So retired to socialize stuff, which is fun but taking a break from checking in five times a day. I will hit up for anniversary dates.      I find you offensive and don't like your humor, but that never stopped you before.      That being said, don't be a stranger Hambone.
    It won't be the same without you.
    Take care my friend.    You may decide to come home and visit more often than you think depending on where life takes you. In any case, you've done your job both for yourself as well as passing on your knowledge and experience to others so go annoy the rest of the world now 
    Thank you Bakon....you have been a big influence getting this old horney toad up  to that Lido Deck,and stay there...   I will look forward to the times you drop by... Enjoy your fabulous non smoking life...I will miss those criptic posts if yours...Ta Ta for now ..xx
    Someone seriously got offended by your posts and humor? Newbies do not always know much of what is going on, do not let that keep you from stopping in here. I mean if the admins and mods are not on your case, nothing to worry about.
    I'm sorry but did I miss something? 
I don't think so. No drama anyway.       Edited January 7, 2018 by reciprocity
    I just want to say something..  Bakon has always been the  one to keep this place upbeat ,and keep the moral of the camp high...    I've read support letters he has wrote ,that have literally brought me to tears.... He's not the village idiot..he would like you to think....he,s actually a great guy,who will fight your corner....  I am going to miss him heaps... You have my respect Sir...  Doorbell !!!!!
    Bakon, you’ve been a source of inspiration, laughs, confusion and admiration- sincere thanks for all of it.  I hope this doesn’t mean you won’t be here at all but maybe just not as frequently as you take the time to enjoy the rest of your life more.   Xxi PT
19 hours ago, bakon said:   Couple more months. Swear I coughed  today and tasted smoke. Not really but was in a smoking bar last week and bothered me at first.                    But I could see without education how quits get fudged up in a bar.  Thanks to you animals, I am safe.                  Don't reply to smoking threads, out of the loop on some newbies and fear insulting someone who don't get my humor.  So retired to socialize stuff, which is fun but taking a break from checking in five times a day. I will hit up for anniversary dates.Good luck to all in the year to come, may sunshine up your rear and make you warm and fuzzy. If you need to reach me anytime ask Nancy she can point you to me on buddybook.Keep Marching.                        NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!  We need you here!
    Hell to the no. Bakon needs to keep on sizzlin’ here on the train.  I actually got to meet this gem in person and he is awesome! 
    And just a quick addition to my protest of Bakon taking a break for fear of being misconstrued. No one here posts anything out of malice, so if you are hurt or offended by a post, reach out and ASK what was meant rather than thinking the worst. This board more than ANY other board is a safe space, not one poster here is malicious. 
  Idiot!
No problems.  No complaints on anything said. Just a slow down. Thank you all for the comments.  I quit 5 years ago and have many friends here, and many friends who have left...hate to be last guy dancing.....plus there are many here now who got the same style humor to keep it rolling....maybe after a lay off....but not quiting the group...laying back.  PS. Not one new friend request on buddybook.....
    Smell ya later Pig.
    June- still rolling. See some awful faces still here. Going to hook up with Saz next week for cocktails in New Orleans. Booger leaving town as I pass through, knew he was afraid of my shadow.
    Hello
It will soon be 6 years.......      Cristóbal
    The crazy Mexican wine drinker.  Yep. Soon amigo 
    LOL...this was the first time I read this thread....nice going down memory lane and seeing the names of those from our beginning.       Glad you are still here Bakon    
14 minutes ago, babs609 said:               LOL...this was the first time I read this thread....nice going down memory lane and seeing the names of those from our beginning.                                       Glad you are still here Bakon                                   I missed this too....
    Little closer to six years. Month away. Got called in for overtime over night. Tired and fuzzy but made it in. On the drive I am searching my pockets to see I got everything. Money-check, lighter....lighter...can't find lighter....wtf do I need a lighter for???? Laughed at myself and realized only need the money clip and to pull head out of ass.
    Boy I hope you hang around for my quit.  Right now I need some humor.  Right now I am just crabby, crabby, crabby!  Last night, while watching tv with my husband, he was crunching on stale cheetos.  With every crunch, I thought I could get up off the couch and strangle him.  Come on, who eats stale cheetos when their wife is trying to quit smoking!
    Some idiot is out walking a cat, on a leash, in the rain. Coffee in one hand, slippers and the dumbest part- smoking.  My job is like living in Wally World.
    Well bakon, might not have been much you could do since stupidity isn't a crime.        But for the scene, if you are an artist, you could design and patent that cartoon and maybe make a little $$$
    Six years....   Nope still working.  Amazing only need one word to quit.    No big deal. If I can quit...Anyone can.
My Mexican friend made his six.  Still pokes his head in too.       Couple of eggs still hanging also.      Sticks rocking the game.        some names have changed but place still kicking out free advice and good stuff too.         Son getting married in two weeks. Nothing else new.         NOPE. Still works fine. Edited November 14, 2018 by bakon
    Bump for.New years
The New Year will bring in my 5th month.  This has been a feat I never thought possible.  I love my smoke free life.  I am so grateful for every encouraging word that guided me through this amazing transformation!
June 2019....had to check in. Forgot exact quit date...couldn't remember how many years....had a smoking dream month ago....wasn't smoking but in my dream I couldn't run up a hill and was blaming smoking....keep marching
On 6/1/2019 at 11:11 AM, bakon said:                in my dream I couldn't run up a hill and was blaming smoking....keep marching               Try dreaming about running downhill next time.  It'll be easier .   EZPZ
Little over 7 years. No interest in smoking. I see people and feel sad for them. Its a shame we ever did this but a guess it had its time. So glad I got some friends on buddy book from here and got to squeeze a few chicks in person. The eggs are a good group.     We are a weird group and when I check in there is always another weirdo who joined. Bunch of window lickers who common thread is ending something stupid we all did. Thank goodness there isn't groups for my other habits. There probably is but I'm not looking       Keep marching, head forward and take one step at a time. Don't look too far ahead and enjoy the process. Embrace the suk.
It is so good to see that Bakon has a 7 years quit.     We quit at aproximately the same time. My feelings about smoking at 7 years quit are the same as his: "No interest in smoking, and I feel sorry for people who continue to smoke".      If you are still smoking and reading this thread, remember the title of Bakon´s thread: "Starting now....."     It is never impossible to quit smoking, and you can start RIGHT NOW.            Cristóbal
    Congratulations Cristobal.  Inspirational......you were a massive part of my own quit ..
my 7 year quit buddies.
    Babbles was one of my first responders. And the Mexican is mi amigo 
    Good going bakon
This is a clear description. ^^^^^^^^^              I'm trying to get this gif to work  Joy ! It is working.            and I am adding a link to a thread  with information about   How Smoking Changes Our DNAEdited December 28, 2018 by Sazeracadditions
    Excellent...
    Love ya work @Sazerac
    Knowledge is power.
On 4/18/2018 at 8:10 PM, Sazerac said:                                                      This is a clear description. ^^^^^^^^^                                                                              I'm trying to get this gif to work                  Joy ! It is working.                                                            and I am adding a link to a thread                  with information about   How Smoking Changes Our DNA            For our fabulous newbies.
    Bump.... for the newbies... KNOWLEDGE is POWER.
    Here is an excellent vid about nicotine addiction    
    Remember, every crave you beat re-claims another receptor in your brain from nicotine.   
    Thanks for adding this great video, to this fantastic post.     Keep bumping it !!!         Cristóbal        
bump for @Kate18
On 12/23/2018 at 9:33 AM, Sazerac said:             bump for @Kate18    Not on the patch anymore, as I mentioned last night. Or maybe it was this morning. Anyway...    Craving nicotine after work today. Ate great salad instead. Still craving. Remembered you'd bumped this.    Came here to watch the first video at this website. A good reminder of why I've quit.   Thanks again, Sazerac.
Nicotine will be gone from your body in roughly 3 days - not from your mind though. Remember why you quit and stay strong to that commitment. You can do it. We all have gone through the same thing so it is possible
2 hours ago, reciprocity said:              Nicotine will be gone from your body in roughly 3 days - not from your mind though. Remember why you quit and stay strong to that commitment. You can do it. We all have gone through the same thing so it is possible      Right now, 9:30 pm on Pacific Standard Time, my last ounce of reserve I am using to force myself to go to bed for the night. Staying awake is giving too much time to experience cravings. I don't crave in my sleep.   I appreciate the 3 day reminder. It'd slipped my mind. I think this is the first nic-free day, but it might have been yesterday. I'll consider today day 1, tomorrow day 2, and then the last day to get the rest of the nicotine out of my system. Of course, the nicotine receptors will still be there, but the winnowing process will be under way. ok, going to sleep off the cravings.
On 4/18/2018 at 8:10 PM, Sazerac said:                                                      This is a clear description. ^^^^^^^^^                                                                              I'm trying to get this gif to work                  Joy ! It is working.                                                            and I am adding a link to a thread                  with information about   How Smoking Changes Our DNA        On 9/23/2018 at 11:51 AM, Sazerac said:             Here is an excellent vid about nicotine addiction                                       On 10/30/2018 at 11:39 AM, Sazerac said:                Remember, every crave you beat re-claims another receptor in your brain from nicotine.                                  Bump for our newbies
And a big thanks from a middleagedbie!      I stopped reading and watching all things informative about smoking a few months ago, because I was doing so well. The last 1,5 month life decided to overthrow me with a sh×tload of life-events-crap  and tadaaa, the remaining receptors are having a blast. What a RELIEF to once again realise this is what its all about: receptors.      Nothing personal or failure or 'why me ahhh' related.. just receptors.  The one thing personal about it is healing and heading towards 12 months.
    Wow no wonder I was so crabby the first few days. Not feeling that way today thank goodness 
    With education about nicotine addiction you will begin to understand about the process the body/brain experiences.  It helped me immeasurably to know it wasn't just me being wacko, there were organic changes going on.       Every crave/trigger you beat deserves reward.   This assists your brain to deliver endorphins etc at appropriate times. You reclaim your brain. Sorry, if I repeat myself here but, it is really important.The Significance of Rewards
    Don’t be sorry I need all the help I can get! I keep telling myself I don’t need to smoke it’s just the habit now. But the habit is as hard to break.
Diane, Smoking/administering nicotine is not simply "a habit".You must address your nicotine addiction!     Chantix may make the withdrawal a bit smoother  but, it doesn't make addiction go away. You have to do the work to put your addiction to sleep  AND put to rest triggers/craves/body memories.  Chantix will not do this for you.   YOU need to do the work as @Nancy, with a successful Chantix quit told you.     Our friend, Joel Spitzer, helped me admit to my addiction and recover from it.  Go through this list of Joel Spitzer Videos they have helped so many.            Edited July 14 by Sazerac
42 minutes ago, Diane R said:               I keep telling myself I don’t need to smoke it’s just the habit now.            Let me tell you as well: you dont need to smoke. You never needed it and you wont ever 'need' it again. Let that sink in...
    I’m  aware of the addictions of nicotine. Thanks for posting the videos. And I’ve watch those videos too. But the habit is what’s getting be now. I’m not getting anything out of smoking. The Chantix is doing it’s job. The don’t do anything for me when I lite one. I take that back I get a headache now when I lite one. That’s it. But I’ve smoked a very long time. It’s such a habit to go outside and have one. I’m working on that part of my smoking habit. I know from the last time I quit this was a hard part of quitting for me. 
It took me, and many people, a full year to go through all the seasonal triggers/craves and to change many habits.  I smoked everywhere all the time for 40 plus years. You may find this helpful
1 hour ago, Diane R said:               I’m working on that part of my smoking habit. I know from the last time I quit this was a hard part of quitting for me.                 Curious about your tricks and the way you are working on it. Please share, others might be inspired!        I took long walks, or went for a bike ride whenever I felt overwhelmed by the need to follow my former patterns. I told myself all the time: I am rewiring my brain. It helped big time to reach beyond the habit part.. which really isnt a thing actually... The habit follows the addiction... adress the addiction and the habit will vanish soon enough!
2 minutes ago, MLMR said:                                                       I told myself all the time: I am rewiring my brain.                 It helped big time to reach beyond the habit part.. which really isnt a thing actually...                   The habit follows the addiction... address the addiction and the habit will vanish soon enough!             A very excellent post, M !
    The last time I quit if I went out it was alway somewhere I couldn’t smoke and it was a big pain to get to a spot where I could. I did this  especially if I was going to have cocktails. I changed the place I had my morning coffee. I took my car and had it detailed. I treated myself to little gifts for not smoking. Writing this is making me remember a lot of the thing I did that helped that I had forgotten about. Thanks for the video sazerac. And thanks to everyone for all your support.
2 hours ago, Diane R said:              I’m  aware of the addictions of nicotine. Thanks for posting the videos. And I’ve watch those videos too. But the habit is what’s getting be now. I’m not getting anything out of smoking. The Chantix is doing it’s job. The don’t do anything for me when I lite one. I take that back I get a headache now when I lite one. That’s it. But I’ve smoked a very long time. It’s such a habit to go outside and have one. I’m working on that part of my smoking habit. I know from the last time I quit this was a hard part of quitting for me.           That's also what takes the longest to change ..... our habitual responses to any number of situations that crop up in our daily lives - including emotions. Happy, sad, bored, lonely, excited they all create an automatic response and that is to light up.       That's what the 1 Year Pledge is for. It's located on the Quit Smoking Discussion Page - pinned near the top of that page. It's an important reminder that it takes most of us a full year to completely recover - face and beat all our smoking triggers at least once (seasonal triggers included). That's why the 1 Year Lido Deck celebration is such a big deal. Once you get to that 1 year mark, you have truly arrived! Sure you may still have thoughts about smoking but you have proven to yourself that you CAN beat your addiction at it's own deadly game.        Yes this is an insidious addiction but there are also habitual responses involved because most of us have smoked for decades. Same response to triggers over dozens of years. All those need to be addressed when we quit. It can be overwhelming at times but it IS doable. That's why support here is important cuz we DO get it! You're not alone. You're one of us
On 4/18/2018 at 8:10 PM, Sazerac said:                                                      This is a clear description. ^^^^^^^^^                                                                              I'm trying to get this gif to work                  Joy ! It is working.                                                            and I am adding a link to a thread                  with information about   How Smoking Changes Our DNA            Check out the whole thread, there are some great links  and a couple of videos from our friend, Joel Spitzer.
Someone mentioned HALT and I dragged this up from my blog.  Babs had a great thread about HALT for which I am still looking.    Ahhh !  HERE is Babs thread on HALT and I will bump it, too.        I have read about the acronym, H A L T, in recovery paraphernalia   and have used it to a great degree of success   in changing my patterns from a nicotine addict to a Free person.    Having a Crave ?    H. A. L. T. Are you Hungry - Thirsty - need a deep breath of Oxygen ?   Angry - Happy - Emotional ? Lonesome - Bored ?  Tired ? In many, many instances, when I would reach for a smoke,    my poor body was actually trying to alert me that it needed attention in some way.  My addiction silenced these natural signals.    I still catch myself these days...no, it is no longer a crave,  it is my body hollering for water or food   or something it really needs !  Now, groovin' in my new freedom,    when these signals come up, my first thought may still be,  'Oh cigarette, dammit'  However, it is followed immediately by, 'No, not smokes...you're Hungry, baby !'    or, you're thirsty  or, you need to go sit outside and take a big gulp of oxygen and figure out what your body or spirit requires.  The piracy that nicotine practiced is still mind-boggling to me.    Allowing nicotine to take over my basic human needs of sustenance and comfort was a grave error on my part. I am grateful my body is so forgiving . I am grateful to be free.   Free and learning how to read my body's signals and remembering how to take good care of it.    So, next time you have what you assume to be a Nic fit, have a think...what is your body really telling you ?   It won't be hard to figure out. For me it has been obvious and I have to wonder,    how could I have neglected my body for so long ?    It is a miracle it survived.            Here is our friend, Joel Spitzers,"Do You Want A Cigarette....H.A.L.T"               Edited October 10 by Sazerac
bumpity
Hello darling smoke free creatures, You know, even after over 4 years quit, I  can still catch myself thinking...' oh, time for a smoke'.   It doesn't trouble me anymore because now I am able to identify what I really need.     It is not, never was and never will be 'a smoke'.   It is most often a glass of water, a break, a deep clean breath.    The concept of H.A.L.T.     (Hungry, Angry, Lonesome, Tired)    is still tremendously helpful and keeps me current and present with myself.     I hope it may be helpful to you, too.   S
    Sazerac, thanks for finding this and bumping it.  I find not only helpful but spot on for me at the moment.  
This happened to me last night! I was hungry because I missed breakfast & lunch. About 7:00 PM I really felt like I should be going for a smoke. That's because I used to suppress my appetite by smoking. Was immediately solved when I ate something
    This is very true, the cigg was my friend! Lyric from the white stripes "Back and forth through my mind Behind a cigarette".. Great thread, thanks for sharing
    bump.   Make sure your read Bab's link in the original post too.    Identifying what your body is actually asking for is incredibly enlightening.    
On 6/19/2016 at 6:39 PM, Sazerac said:              Someone mentioned HALT and I dragged this up from my blog.                  Babs had a great thread about HALT for which I am still looking.                    Ahhh !  HERE is Babs thread on HALT         and I will bump it, too.                                        I have read about the acronym, H A L T,         in recovery paraphernalia           and have used it to a great degree of success           in changing my patterns         from a nicotine addict to a Free person.                    Having a Crave ?            H. A. L. T.                 Are you         Hungry - Thirsty - need a deep breath of Oxygen ?           Angry - Happy - Emotional ?         Lonesome - Bored ?          Tired ?                 In many, many instances, when I would reach for a smoke,            my poor body was actually trying to alert me that it needed attention in some way.          My addiction silenced these natural signals.                    I still catch myself these days...no, it is no longer a crave,          it is my body hollering for water or food           or something it really needs !          Now, groovin' in my new freedom,            when these signals come up,         my first thought may still be,          'Oh cigarette, dammit'          However, it is followed immediately by,         'No, not smokes...you're Hungry, baby !'            or, you're thirsty          or, you need to go sit outside and take a big gulp of oxygen and figure out what your body or spirit requires.                  The piracy that nicotine practiced is still mind-boggling to me.            Allowing nicotine to take over my basic human needs of sustenance and comfort was a grave error on my part.         I am grateful my body is so forgiving .         I am grateful to be free.           Free and learning how to read my body's signals and remembering how to take good care of it.                    So, next time you have what you assume to be a Nic fit,         have a think...what is your body really telling you ?           It won't be hard to figure out.                 For me it has been obvious and I have to wonder,            how could I have neglected my body for so long ?            It is a miracle it survived.                Here is our friend, Joel Spitzers,"Do You Want A Cigarette....H.A.L.T"          Bump for Tammy       Edited October 10 by Sazerac
Bump for @Juanrmartino2 and all of us.  Pay attention to what your body requires !
Hello Everyone- I was on this board a little over 3 years ago and I'm happy to say that my 3 year anniversary is coming up in November.     I used to read and post here everyday and then all of a sudden one day, the board was gone. I'm not sure why I didn't get any notification. I think I may have stopped logging in and was just reading so maybe that's why I missed it, I'm not sure. Well - as it turns out I had a user name here after all and I was able to retrieve it and log on today. I'm here to say "thank you" to all the veterans here and to pay it forward to all the new quitters too.       I'm doing really well but I will occasionally google "quit smoking..." and today I stumbled across this site, I seem to remember it was "Quit Smoking Message Board". I do recognize some of the names and I'd like to say that I'm so grateful for everyone's help on my journey. Without you and everyone else on this board at that time, I don't think I would have been successful.        For all you new quitters out there, the difference in this quit from all the others (after 40+ years of smoking and trying to quit several times) is that for the first time I followed the instructions here. I read every day, sometimes ALL day and when I needed help, I asked for it. I listened to the advice. When I wanted to smoke, I posted and waited it out. Each and every time someone helped me and I got through it. Little by little the days added up, the craves became less and less. Several weeks later I experienced my first morning where i woke up and realized that 30 seconds had elapsed and I hadn't thought about smoking! That's when I knew I could make it LOL        I didn't even WANT to quit, you don't have to want to - you just have to do it.  But I was so fed up with myself, I hated that I was smoking. I'd lay in bed at night and promise myself i wouldn't smoke the next day - but you all know the end to that story - tomorrow, tomorrow adds up to years. I was determined to stop but I wasn't happy about it. I was angry about it. But I knew I was slowly poisoning myself.         I can't imagine myself as a smoker again. Of course I have thoughts now and then and I know I "can" smoke if I want to but I don't want to smoke! I used to envy smokers but now when I look at them, I feel........nothing. Indifference, no desire at all. I hope that some day they obtain this same freedom that I know they want.     I come from a family of smokers. My father quit a 35 year - 3 pack a day addiction (unfiltered camels) a long time ago but my mother and 3 siblings smoked until recently. Unfortunately, my 2 sons took up the addiction too. My husband quit many many years ago. Sadly, 1 brother is now being treated for throat cancer and my 83 year old mother was recently diagnosed with lung cancer. They each have quit, but my 3 other siblings continue to smoke. Its very difficult not to say anything to them, but I don't. They know what they're doing, they are making their own choices.        There is a silver lining to this awful news, as soon as my sons learned of these diagnoses, they each quit smoking. That makes me so happy!     Three years of freedom and it feels wonderful. I know everyone says this, but its so true - if *I* can do this, you can do this!
So glad that you were able to find the site again.  Thanks for posting your story so that others might learn, you have a strong message here.  Also almost 3 years quit, that is a strong one you have going.  And yes this site is so helpful in so many ways!!!!!
    Hi Hyacinth, congratulations on that great quit you have! I think you may be confusing the two boards. This site has always been quittrain  I'm really sorry about your mom and brother. My father and his brother both died from smoking related cancer, it's awful  But it's awesome that your sons have quit, that must be such a relief for you!I hope you stick around to offer your knowledge to others following behind as I remember how special I thought it was when a long time quitter took the time to support me  
    Congratulations on your quit, Hyacinth !    We will have bells on for your Third Year of Freedom in November.   S    
    Congratulations on your amazing quit, Hyacinth!
    Anyone else live in a house of smokers?     I get them for Mrs boosh and am often with her when she's smoking merrily away. It doesn't make the quit harder because I took the view that I will find myself in lots of smoky situations and it's simply not feasible to avoid them all, I'd be running forever. No, I want to laugh in the face of a ciggy box with no temptation to have one. I'm winning.  
    I have so much respect for you quitters who still have smokers in your house. It must be truly hard but not for you mightyboosh, well done  
    Mighty One,     YES ! You ARE winning.  Your quit is ALL about YOU and your nicotine addiction. Everybody else is secondary, every THING else is secondary. You Quit Smoking !  You are a FREE person.      Our friend, Joel, has a good video about living with smokersHow Can I Quit If I Live With A Smoker
    High Five .!!!!!..... respect my friend ....It's not easy in the early days ...
    One Thousand Pounds of Respect my friend!!!!!   You're absolutely correct, you can not avoid all of them smokers and sooner or later you are gonna have to deal with that!! I'm proud of you my friend!!! Keep up the Quit!!!
Definite respect mightyboosh -- must be trying on you but you are doing well.  And no when I quit I was the only smoker in the house (grandchildren were thrilled)!!!Edited October 1 by Martian5
    I guess it's all in your head but mine would have exploded if I lived with a smoker early on.  That's what makes you the Mighty Boosh!   
    Sort of..... My hubby smokes at work, he never smokes in the house or outside our home. I don't know how he does it, but he can go without fine,  evenings and weekends when at home, or if we are away for a week! so why cant he stop all the time ....grrrrrrrrrrr    
    I live with two smokers. I have never asked them to change their habits as I know if they had ever asked me I would have said no. 
    My in-laws live above us, and they both smoke. My mother-in-law and I were smoking buddies, so I had to avoid her like the plague when I first quit. The hardest thing for me has been seeing their packs of smokes laying around. (I used to smoke the same brand and would bum one from them occasionally.) I feel a tiny twinge every time I see an open pack on the table. It's getting easier to resist over time, though. And I absolutely refuse to buy for them. It would be way too tempting for me. But I don't give them crap about continuing to smoke. (I let my husband do that!) I know when I was smoking that if anyone gave me a hard time about it, it just made me want to smoke more. I keep hoping my in-laws will quit, but at this point I don't think it's ever gonna happen.
    We all know the health benefits.    We all know the financial benefits.     We all know the smelling good benefits. Food tastes better. Breath is fresher. Skin is more radiant.    We all love our freedom. Right?     Another element of freedom that can easily be overlooked: freedom to get a new job.     I have accepted a new job.  Not only do I get tested for illegal drugs- I get tested for nicotine.  The assays used will detect ANY nicotine from cigs, patches, gums, etc.   If prospective employees use NRT, it must be disclosed prior to testing & they will continue to be monitored for nic use.         I’m in healthcare so I’m not sure if this is a common practice elsewhere.       I’m thankful and proud I no longer smoke.  Now perhaps more than ever- except maybe at Disney-being a smoker at Disney is a real drag!!          
    Congratulations on your new job, Lusty one !    The benefits of quitting smoking and putting nicotine addiction to sleep continue to manifest.
    Congratulations on your new job Lust!
    Congratulations on your new job.  I am surprised they can test for nicotine and deny you a job because you smoke.  
    Congratulations on the new job lust. That's so surprising that they test for nicotine, sounds like something California would do
    Me too @Linda Thomas   Applying for and then starting  a new job is stressful enough.  I can’t imagine adding another layer on top.         I’m curious why they started testing for nic.   Smoke breaks? Insurance cost & usage? 
    Maybe all of that lust!
    From our friend, Joel,Smokers Need Not Apply
    Congratulations on the new job!     I remember when I was working as a teacher. Every time I snuck out for a smoke break, I felt guilty. I was always terrified one of my students would see me. I wanted to be a good role model for them in every way. But I was still a slave to my addiction.       Smoking affects everything, including our work lives.
    thank you brothers and sisters
    Congratulations, Juan !  You are doing great.
    Yaaaa.....look at you go Juan ....well done .....
Nice one Juan. Keep going, 1 day at a time
    Two weeks + One Day...Good job Juan.        You've got momentum now.
    Hell week and heck week done, don't let your guard down now Juan. WTF week is the next hurdle on your way to freedom  
    OK NOPE dont let my guard down
    Great job, Juan!
Great job! You are past the first 2 weeks. You should be incredibly proud of yourself! I'm proud of you!
    I focus on my freedom
Where is our @Juanrmartino2  ?
Im here 21 days Done
    Please make you read all the above posts ...they are green pinned....   And watch all Joel's video,s....    They are full of great information to help you along ...    Don't forget ...what you are achieving is life changing ....you can do it !!!!
Yes, and if you want even more inspiration consider putting a ticker in your signature. I loved watching all the time, money and cigs not smoked add up.    Also the 2019 quitters call themselves the Ash kickers, here's the logo if you want it for your signature as well
    Quitting smoking and dealing with Nicotine Addiction is not complicated.    You must educate yourself, which will strengthen your resolve and commitment  to Not One Puff Ever (minute by minute if needed).        The rewards will manifest quite quickly, your health, self-respect, self-confidence. Blood supply to your limbs etc. Extra dosh in your pocket.     Take the opportunity to save yourself from a slow, gruesome suicide and save your love ones from having to watch the possible horror show.                       
DAY 16..... This is not a Sos…. but having a hard time
You're doing great Juan. You're now in WTF week and it's called that for a reason. But just power through like you have the last 16 days, you CAN do it
    Juan, if you give into the crave you are right back where you started.  You are past hell week.  Now is the time you redirect those thoughts.  You can do this!
Juan 2 plus weeks without cigarette is a big achievement .      Cigarette causes a lot of dangerous diseases , so please try to stay away .     These hard times will pass      The best way not to smoke is not to smoke       It is important to stay fresh
    Hey bother Juan,    You don't smoke anymore, bebe.  Soon, the thoughts of nicotine will be gone gone gone, forever !    Stay focused on your fabulous Freedom, I know you know how. This nicotine crazy stuff won't last long, believe us.  Breathe deep beautiful breaths of beloved oxygen and reward yourself.   You quit smoking !  S
    Fight for your freedom Juan ...keep busy... Come and play some games ...do a jigsaw ...stay strong .....look how far you have come ..   Turn negatives thoughts in to positive ones ...your beating that monster ...
    Hard times are temporary.       The freedom gained is permanent.        Your focus is in the right place Juan.
3 hours ago, Juanrmartino2 said:                .. but having a hard time           No you're not Juan.     You think you have a hard time but you don't.   Just imagine: twice weekly Chemo treatment ... breathing from a tube up your nose fed by some Oxygen concentrator.  An hour or so baking your internal organs under the Radiation Emitter.  Wasting away on a Terminal Diagnosis with mere months to live..     That's a hard time.     A. Real. Hard. Time.    This?   This is nothing.    NOTHING.    EZPZ
    amen brother
    Focus on your freedom and fight through this, Juan.  The early struggles are worth the longtime reward of living a smoke-free life.
    i will fight
    Start dancing on the good foot, Juan.   Accentuate all the positives    because the negatives are temporary and not worth your precious time.    
    Your doing great Juan....onwards ...
    How you doing today Juan ??
So there is a push at the moment to make the Melbourne CBD smoke free and as of tomorrow morning the Bourke Street Mall goes smoke free.     https://www.news.com.au/lifestyle/health/health-problems/councillors-push-for-melbourne-cbd-smoking-ban/news-story/5a19306d333bc561a63b4b0edf3d6538        So in Australia if an area is designated non-smoking that includes vaping. Other states joke the Victoria has become over regulated and is the nanny state but I'm not sure it's so bad.
Australia leads the way ..I.remember my last trip ,maybe 11 years ago ..    Even outside smokers had to be a good distance...away from people eating .. On a Trip to Paris last year ...the folks eating outside ...me included were surrounded my smokers ..   If was awful...I was choking....
    Victoria is a lot like Cali. All our smoking laws also apply to vaping too. 
Posted 12 April 2014 - 09:56 PM It's no big deal to be an Old Pharte. Sure, it's nice to achieve that milestone and receive all the accolades, but it's not hard anymore to not smoke. By one year, you are far into your new life as a nonsmoker and you don't have to struggle to stay that way. By one year, the benefits of your quit have improved your life and your lifestyle. You are reminded every single day how great it is to be a nonsmoker. Your bank account is bigger and your health is better. And for many of us, there is a whole new way of life outside of just getting rid of the cigarettes. We have discovered new activities we love, we eat better, we have a new found confidence, we're proud of ourselves. What's so hard about all this? You know who are MY heroes? That person who has been lurking here and has finally made the choice to quit. And those who just got past that magic 72 hour mark, or hit their one month milestone. My heroes are the people who have blind faith and believe us when we tell them it will get better. It's those who get up every morning and log onto the QSMB to make the daily pledge because they know that's the only thing that will keep them from smoking that day. It's the person who is out the door to buy cigarettes but instead turns around and posts that SOS. Newbies, you are why this board is here. You are the ones that are the big deal here! So, cheers to all those brave souls who one day will join us on the lido deck. You're in the trenches now, but keep on climbing and if you need help reach out and we'll grab your hand. Because you are why we do what we do. Edited October 8, 2018 by jillar
    One of the most wonderful posts ever 
9 hours ago, jillar said:               Posted 12 April 2014 - 09:56 PM                 It's no big deal to be an Old Pharte. Sure, it's nice to achieve that milestone and receive all the accolades, but it's not hard anymore to not smoke. By one year, you are far into your new life as a nonsmoker and you don't have to struggle to stay that way. By one year, the benefits of your quit have improved your life and your lifestyle. You are reminded every single day how great it is to be a nonsmoker. Your bank account is bigger and your health is better. And for many of us, there is a whole new way of life outside of just getting rid of the cigarettes. We have discovered new activities we love, we eat better, we have a new found confidence, we're proud of ourselves. What's so hard about all this? You know who are MY heroes? That person who has been lurking here and has finally made the choice to quit. And those who just got past that magic 72 hour mark, or hit their one month milestone. My heroes are the people who have blind faith and believe us when we tell them it will get better. It's those who get up every morning and log onto the QSMB to make the daily pledge because they know that's the only thing that will keep them from smoking that day. It's the person who is out the door to buy cigarettes but instead turns around and posts that SOS. Newbies, you are why this board is here. You are the ones that are the big deal here! So, cheers to all those brave souls who one day will join us on the lido deck. You're in the trenches now, but keep on climbing and if you need help reach out and we'll grab your hand. Because you are why we do what we do.                 ^^^^^^ This ^^^^^^
    For all our newbies, you're doing great! 
    Bump 
On 5/28/2018 at 3:06 AM, Doreensfree said:              Newbies﻿, you are why this board is here. You are the ones that are the big deal here! So, cheers to all those brave souls who one day ﻿will join us on the lido deck. You're in the trenches now, but keep on climbing and if you need help reach out and we'll grab your hand. Because you are why we do what﻿ ﻿we do﻿﻿.﻿             Yes, yes, yes!!!! I love watching a new quit grow and to hear from someone else when they have their "Wow!" moment when their quit clicks into place
    This is a beautiful and inspiring post. Thank you !
Imagine how surprised I was to see that my post from over 4 years ago lives on, even though the site that I credit my quit to sadly no longer does. Thanks jillar for reposting it, and although I do believe it was done with the best intentions, I must take exception to the editing done without my knowledge,. "My heroes" did not wake up every morning and log onto quittrain, they logged onto the QSMB (quit smoking message board), The fact that this site is no more does not diminish the importance it played for so many people over the course of so many years. QSMB is what somehow got me through endless nights when I thought I could not make it another minute without smoking. It connected me with with people from all over the world,  It was the home of crazy online fights the likes of which I had never seen, and deep friendships formed that will never be forgotten. It was my lifeline for months. It is what has gotten me to this point in my life where I don't ever think of smoking much less wish I could, where I can hardly imagine the life I lived as a smoker for 45 years. Loss teaches us we must accept change and move forward. But I will never forget you QSMB. Thank you to all the wonderful people who made you what you were and what you always will be in my heart. Edited October 8, 2018 by kathleen0515left out a word
6 minutes ago, kathleen0515 said:               . Thanks jillar for reposting it, and although I do believe it was done with the best intentions, I must take exception to the editing done without﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ my kno﻿wledge              I'm sorry Kathleen for changing the name, I had no way to contact you to ask your permission. This post meant a lot to me in my first year and so I wanted to share it here for members on their first year. And since qsmb is no more i felt it was appropriate to change the name.    Again my apologies and I have edited it back to your original words.    P.s. Welcome to quittrain
52 minutes ago, kathleen0515 said:              Imagine how surprised I was to see that my post from over 4 years ago lives on, even though the site that I credit my quit to sadly no longer does. Thanks jillar for reposting it, and although I do believe it was done with the best intentions, I must take exception to the editing done without my knowledge,. "My heroes" did not wake up every morning and log onto quittrain, they logged onto the QSMB (quit smoking message board), The fact that this site is no more does not diminish the importance it played for so many people over the course of so many years. QSMB is what somehow got me through endless nights when I thought I could not make it another minute without smoking. It connected me with with people from all over the world,  It was the home of crazy online fights the likes of which I had never seen, and deep friendships formed that will never be forgotten. It was my lifeline for months. It is what has gotten me to this point in my life where I don't ever think of smoking much less wish I could, where I can hardly imagine the life I lived as a smoker for 45 years. Loss teaches us we must accept change and move forward. But I will never forget you QSMB. Thank you to all the wonderful people who made you what you were and what you always will be in my heart.                 And this is exactly what Quit Train is to me and so many others. Matters not the name or who the people are at the foundation of the site. It only matters that there are sites where anyone who wants to quit this horrible addiction have a supportive community to lean on while they are battling the monster that is our addiction!        Welcome to Quit Train Kathleen0515 .We salute those who have gone before us and we remain here to support those who are following in our footsteps
From a newbie on day 1 of her quit being welcomed, from my first SOS post and receiving those messages of guarding my quit, to the regular banter of CoS and the ever important NOPE pledge, I'm absolutely glad I found this forum for the sheer level of support I get.   Thank you for the post, and yes I love reading new quit stories, people sticking up for their quit because somewhere, something someone wrote clicked with them.        So glad to be a part of the QT family.
    Welcome Aboard Kathleen....x
    My post from last night sounds a little harsh and overreactive in the light of morning, so I'd like to just add a few words and then bow out. Firstly, my apologies to Jillar. I know that you meant no harm in reposting or in the slight edit you made. You were always one of the most supportive members at QSMB and I'm sure you are on this site as well. But, to further explain, there is a history between the two boards and it is not a happy one. Any founding member of Quittrain who remembers when it was started will also remember why. It was a very emotional and divisive time for those of us involved.  I, like several other long term members of QSMB, chose to remain there and  kind of "went down with the ship" . My sincere best wishes to all those just beginning this journey, and to those of you helping them along their way. In the end, all that matters is that you quit smoking. 
@kathleen0515, I hope you don't bow out. You have so much to offer and it would be a shame to let something that happened so long ago be your reason why. Quittrain has been so nice to all of us that came over from qsmb. They have welcomed us with open arms and with no animosity over anything that happened in the past.
    Bumping for our awesome newbies  I loved this post when I was a newbie and I hope you do too.   You're all doing great! 
    This nights that should be welcomed,  for me are a really tough thing.  I'm not chasing fires to put out    I'm not chasing some circuit that is not functioning    I not hammering or pounding or even watching one of my guys hammering or pounding   I am sucking on my hard candy, getting paperwork done early or going for a walk about   in any direction away from the smoking area.    Headaches have started, tension in the neck and some trembling. I turn off the lights in my office and lean back way BACK close my eyes and day dream about my Grandson and I out shooting up something Or my wife and I ????? ok my Grandson and I wrenching on something that needs fixing.   OK just kidding about the wife, we spend some super nice days at the beach, the water   has gotten so clear you can see the baby sharks swimming around your feet.  But then I have to open my eyes turn on the lights and start all over again.    Going to start bringing some Alieve to work with me for the headaches.  And awe yes I will be writing your eyes off.    DEEP BREATH OK I good now    
    You're doing great opah, you're almost done with hell week so just keep your eye on the prize, better breathing to go hunting with your grandson  
All better for now, had an oiler shoot its wad, no that's not it,  dumped its load? no that's not it either,  drained its tank all over the mezzanine floor and is now dripping down on the heads of some of our clerks.  A little excitement !   That's no Hair gel you got there !Edited October 2 by Opah
    Your doing great ..keep your eye on that prize ...Freedom !!!
    HI  Try upping your fluid intake it may help the headaches.
    Much better today, got some extra sleep before work, ate well and packed a good lunch.  Have some to dos to do if slow times present them self's. got my sights set.     
    Glad you have a game plan opah 
I was just looking at my 2019 Ashkickers logo, and I realized something--2019 is winding down! What the heck? Where did the year go?        This time last year I was deep in the smoking habit, still trying to hide it from my family, feeling an almost constant sense of urgency and desperation for that next smoke.. Now I'm almost 9 months smoke free, and cravings have dwindled down to only the very occasional nagging thought, easily pushed aside in favor of a smoke-free existence..        If you are early in your quit and struggling with the daily grind, don't despair! It gets better. Before you know it, you'll be wondering where the heck the time went, and you'll be so happy you kept your resolve in those early days.       Freedom is fantastic!
    Good to hear from you again abbynormal.  Glad to see you going strong.  Yes the time flies and things get better, soon you will be on the Lido Deck so spread your wings!!!
    Thank you, Martian! It's good to be back.Gonna try to spend a little more time here from now on!
    Beautiful, inspiring post, Abby !       I am so happy you built yourself a solid and sturdy quit.   The benefits will continue to manifest in your life as  self esteem and self confidence reign.  You can trust yourself and really enjoy this freedom you have worked so hard for.       Stay focused, don't expect but, don't be surprised if a trigger/crave pops in out of nowhere.   These would be the last dying embers of a once active addiction and have no power, no power at all. You own your power, now, just watch it grow.
1 minute ago, Sazerac said:             Stay focused, don't expect but, don't be surprised if a trigger/crave pops in out of nowhere.               That happened to me the other day! I found a lighter in the pocket of a coat I hadn't worn since last winter. I was immediately triggered and had to battle some nagging thoughts for the next 24 hours. But they were just that--nagging thoughts. Not hardcore cravings. Much easier to resist. But still annoying as heck!
    Great post Abby, I'm really happy for you and the awesome quit you have 
    Thank you, Jill!!!!!
    Love this post Abby.... inspirational.....  Would love to party with you on the Lido ...    That Nico Monster was testing you ...you kick his butt....
    The best way not to smoke is not to smoke    
22 hours ago, abbynormal said:              This time last year I was deep in the smoking habit, still trying to hide it from my family, feeling an almost constant sense of urgency and desperation for that next smoke.. Now I'm almost 9 months smoke free, and cravings have dwindled down to only the very occasional nagging thought, easily pushed aside in favor of a smoke-free existence..                The view from the top truly does make the journey all worth it.     Enjoy your newfound freedom Abby.  You earned it.
Protecting Your FOREVER Quit     Nearing my six year anniversary, I am examining how I protect my quit.This quit is as precious today as it was during it's infancy.  I know that.I continue my vigilance.  I am not in full battle Riot gear anymore but, I still NOPE, if only to myself, every morning.  In the evening I am grateful for the day, grateful for my quit.My commitment stands firm.This ritual of NOPE is a part of me now, it takes no extra thought but, I haven't forgotten what it means.Perhaps, hanging out on QTrain keeps my eyes open and helps me to absorb the facts of addiction in a deep and daily way.For this I am v. thankful. I will do everything to stay free.     So, to newbies....this isn't a struggle anymore, hasn't been a struggle since the v. early days.It is now a conscious reminder that nicotine addiction doesn't magically disappear OR stay asleep if provoked.Addiction must be acknowledged and our commitment, our fidelity to NOPE ~ Not One Puff Ever Never Forever WILL protect our quits...forever.   Here is a fresh off the press video from our friend, Joel Spitzer.He is the one who helped me (and many, many others)understand my nicotine addiction.  I am so appreciative of his continuing teachings.                   Video describes resource pages set up to help people who have already successfully stopped smoking to maintain their quits over the long-term.      Resource pages discussed in this video:     Resources/Videos Related To The Implications Of A Puff Once You Have Quit   Relapse Prevention  Can You Spare About An Hour And A Half To Help Save Your Life ?     Joel Spitzer's Daily Quit Smoking Lessons                               Edited September 25 by Sazerac
7 minutes ago, Sazerac said:                It is now a conscious reminder that nicotine addiction doesn't magically disappear OR stay asleep if provoked.              A very wise post and a reminder for all about the dangers.  You may remember in my introductory post that I said I gave up for seven years in 1997 so, an addict is an addict is an addict until we're pushing up the daisies.  My late mother in law had quit for more than thirty years and detested the smell etc. of cigarettes. She never wanted one but once said that if she did have one, she'd be back on 60 a day immediately. She had never read up on addiction but she knew instinctively what it meant.
    Yeah - nicotine addiction is a bitch for sure but once you are able to put it to sleep, it's easy to maintain providing you just don't do anything stupid. I think part of the reason I stick around here is to remind myself of that initial struggle to get to a place of little effort by following the early days of other quitters. We try to pass on thoughts and ideas that resonated with us when we quit. Not sure if any of that helps much or not because in the end, it's what we choose to do or not do individually. I can't save your quit and you can't save mine. This is one thing in life where each individual alone is responsible for their own ultimate success. Smoking or quitting ..... each is a choice!
My late mother in law had quit for more than thirty years and detested the smell etc. of cigarettes. She never wanted one but once said that if she did have one, she'd be back on 60 a day immediately. She had never read up on addiction but she knew instinctively what it meant        Being addict ... I understand this ..there is no such thing as one ...ever ....
4 hours ago, Sazerac said:  So, to newbies....this isn't a struggle anymore, hasn't been a struggle since the v. early days.        I don't even remember the last time I craved a smoke.  Distant memory.      I can't imagine a scenario in which I would choose to light one up.  Unthinkable.       I don't miss smoking at all.  Not one iota.     Three and a half years ago I seriously doubted my ability to quit.  Now, it's hard to believe that I ever smoked.       Hang in there newbies.  The only thing that kept us trapped as smokers was a perception of ourselves altered by addiction.
    Good stuff - thanks Sazerac
    I am stumped! I don't know how to reward myself for getting over cravings, getting thru certain situations, etc.    What are some of the things y'all do or used to do?     I just bought a new-to-me car yesterday so that's off the table. lol (pics SURELY to come once it's light outside)   
    Truth be told, I never did anything special for my self really. For me it was the pride in knowing I had put another notch in my quit belt that was most rewarding. I guess if you have a special interest or hobby, spend a little $$ in that direction for something that makes you happy. Or something as insignificant as having a special meal you wouldn't normally have, go to a movie you've wanted to see .... anything that brings you a little joy. A temporary, happy escape from your daily grind. 
I love the feeling of being proud of myself, it's something I have never felt before.   I just need to quit eating every time I don't smoke - it's adding up.   Last time I quit I gained 20 lbs in 3.5 weeks! That is/was outrageous.  I still have that weight.   I don't need anymore.  sigh.
    Rewards .....they can be anything ...from a magazine to a new hair do....   As long as you get that pat on the back feeling ...what you are achieving is kinda wonderful....    I can remember being in my early quit ...and some guy asked me for a light ...i can still the sense of pride j got saying ..I don't smoke ...I high five,d myself in the air ..
    There are some rewards listed by quitters in the comments of The Significance OF Rewards thread.    I will look for more reward threads for you.        I ate Satsumas as a reward. Often my reward and one that stimulated endorphins was a few concentrated breaths and looking at something of beauty.   (that light on that leaf or the color of the sky, the shape of that cloud etc.) Baths, with smellies if you like.   A perfect nap in clean crisp sheets.    Listening, concentrated listening with headphones, to a favorite piece of music.    Taking a walk in the moonlight or to look at the stars.     I kept the dosh for a pack a day in a big Mason jar and watched it grow...and quickly !          
Rewards Are Very Important  from our @Doreensfree
    and from our friend, Joel    
    I didn't splurge on anything huge, I did like reciprocity did and gave myself a pat on the back most the time but I would go get a beer at the local post to celebrate.  
2 hours ago, Sazerac said:              and from our friend, Joel                               *THIS*
You can treat yourself to anything that may make you feel good as well as proud.  A small special treat with dinner (food or drink), a quick walk at sunset to reflect all that you have done for yourself during the quit.  A hot soak during the evening.  Special time with a special person (or pet or just yourself).  Anything that makes you feel fuzzy and warm on the inside and you can take a few minutes to relax -- just keep it simple!!!!        Save for the extravagant celebrations for the 1st month, the 3rd month, the 6th month and most definitely that 1 year mark -- or you can go all out on any celebration if you desire, any reward for quitting you deserve!!!!!
    Today I bought some baby's breath to put in my Halloween (yes, already! lol) vases. I normally wouldn't decorate because my bipolar makes me lazy and blah, but the past couple of days have put a pep in my step . . .     And I have been actually lighting my candles instead of hoarding them. Today I am burning Pumpkin Peanut Brittle.   I am most positive my nose appreciates nice smells more now.    So I suppose these are rewards for myself, it sure feels like it anyway! Plus, when I reached in my wallet to pay for the baby's breath, there was extra $$ in there from not buying smokes! 
Those vases were actually at my wedding in October 2014 in Sevierville, TN. Sorry, couldn't help myself! Y'all know I love to post a pic, lol
    med adjustments that may be necessary    
42 minutes ago, Sazerac said:               med adjustments that may be necessary                               rut-roh! No wonder I have been feeling epic!
    You are going through Epic Times, mrsG. Be Kind to yourself.    You quit smoking !
    One of my favorite rewards is a new Kindle book. I'm on a tight budget, so I try not to spend too much on extras, but I never feel guilty for splurging on new reading material. It keeps my brain and hands busy, and it is a great escape from the stress of everyday life.
    thank you brothers and sisters.
    Keep up the great work, Juan.  You are doing awesome.
    Yay Juan !!! You quit smoking !
    Juan ...I'm so proud of you ..your hours away from a fortnight smoke free ...!!!!
    it has been very very dificult
    Yes, the first month always is but look at all those cigarettes you've avoided! Well done  
    Congratulations, Juan.  You never have to go through this again !   and it will get easier, trust us.   Stay focused, you don't smoke anymore, Juan.    Focus on your freedom.  S
    i focus on my freedom
    Great work Juan. You are really doing this. Don't let anything slow you down  
18 hours ago, Juanrmartino2 said:               i focus on my freedom                   You are Free, Juan. I am so glad, so very, very glad for you.
Deep in the archives, I found another gem from, our friend, Cristóbal       Cristóbal's Quit Days %         Some people are amazed that even though they may have several weeks or months quit,     that they still do not feel completely "normal", and continue to miss smoking.      When this happens, figure your "Quit Days %" and then you will see why.     The way to calculate this is:           Number of Years Smoked x 365 = Smoke Days.  Number of Days Not Smoked = Quit Days.          Then, Quit Days ÷ Smoke Days = "Quit Days %".       ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------     I will go first, to be the first example.       I smoked for about 30 years.        30 years x 365 = 10,950 Smoke Days.         As of today, I have not smoked for 5 years, 2 months, 7 days.   This period of times = 1904 Quit Days.          Then, 1904 Quit Days ÷ 10,950 Smoke Days = 17.388%. This is my "Quit Days %".           In other words, even at more than 5 years since my last cigarette,  as of today I have been quit for only 17.388% of the total time I smoked.       ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------         Now, let us take as the second example,     a smoker who smoked for 30 years, and has been quit for just 4 months.  These 4 months might seem like a very long time to the ex-smoker,   but it is nothing when compared to 30 years.        This smoker who smoked for 30 years, has 30 years x 365 = 10,950 Smoke Days.        Quit time of 4 months = 120 Quit Days.      120 Quit Days ÷ 10,950 Smoke Days = Quit Days % of just 1.096%, of the total time the smoker smoked.            ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------     Smoking had a deep impact on us physically, mentally, emotionally, and spiritually.     A lot of the physical damage can be repaired in a time period of about 10 years,    but some of it can never be repaired - the damage is done !!!       The mental, emotional, and spiritual damage can be repaired much quicker,   since all of us at one time were never smokers. None of us started life with a cigarette in the mouth !!!   We all know how to live life as non-smokers, we just need to remember how to do it again.   And time is what is needed for that to happen.      It is my experience working with others,    that how quickly one becomes very comfortable in these 3 areas  depends on the person and also their understanding of nicotine addiction.   The more a person understands the process of separation from the active addiction,  it seems to me the quicker the good comfort levels of being a non-smoker return.        What is important to understand,    is that the first year as a non-smoker will be spent confronting triggers,  many of them that are seasonal.     Once you arrive at your first year anniversary,     most people can say that they are making very good progress adjusting to life as a non-smoker.          Cristóbal               Edited December 31, 2017 by Cristóbal    1
I still can't believe how long I smoked: 35 years as best as I can reckon since I had some unsuccessful but long quits. Started smoking at age 14.5 and quit at age 52, so 52-14.5=37.5 ...  I've been quit for 984 days which is 2.7 years, rounded. So 2.7/35 is about 8%.        Yeah. It seems like an eternity... I can't believe I let that addiction rule most of my adult life.
Good quit on the mark 2.7 years.        I started at 13 but i didnt think i really 'properly' smoked till i was about 15. But im going to take from age 13 as i was smoking and the damage began from then. So thats 20 years smoking, crikey thats disgusting. So quit 139 days which is approx 0.4 of a year. So 0.4/20 = im at 2%.   Must admit i feel very comfortable and do not miss smoking. Long may it continue.
    That is an interesting way to look at it, and something that I hadn't ever considered before. Food for thought. Thanks Sazerak (thanks Cristobal).
You should also count the years before you started smoking as non-smoking years, not just the quit years.  To give you a more accurate percentage of not-smoking years.     Going by those numbers, I have 32% non-smoking and 68% smoking      If you just go by years smoked and just quit I have 5%, there would never be a chance to break even.Edited March 24, 2018 by Wayne045
I like that way of thinking wayne, as its now saying 67% and i sure feel 67% better not 2%. I may have done the math wrong but oh wow that feels much better thanks.
9 minutes ago, Weegie said:             I like that way of thinking wayne, as its now saying 67% and i sure feel 67% better not 2%. I may have done the math wrong but oh wow that feels much better thanks.                You have it backwards.  Using the numbers in your post, it would be 67% smoking 33% non-smokingEdited March 24, 2018 by Wayne045
Ive had a few drinks lol is my math wrong   13.4/20 is 67 im confused
        Just now, Weegie said:              Ive had a few drinks lol is my math wrong               You're still young,   You'll easily reverse those numbers.
If counting time before I started to smoke i have 20 years smoke free and 15 years smoking.  If NOT counting time before i started smoking I have 2 years quit 15 years smoking 13.33%
On 3/24/2018 at 12:34 PM, Sazerac said:                                 Deep in the archives, I found another gem from, our friend, Cristóbal                                       Cristóbal's Quit Days %                                         Some people are amazed that even though they may have several weeks or months quit,                     that they still do not feel completely "normal", and continue to miss smoking.                                      When this happens, figure your "Quit Days %" and then you will see why.                                     The way to calculate this is:                                                           Number of Years Smoked x 365 = Smoke Days.                  Number of Days Not Smoked = Quit Days.                                                          Then, Quit Days ÷ Smoke Days = "Quit Days %".                                       ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                     I will go first, to be the first example.                                       I smoked for about 30 years.                                        30 years x 365 = 10,950 Smoke Days.                                                         As of today, I have not smoked for 5 years, 2 months, 7 days.                   This period of times = 1904 Quit Days.                                                          Then, 1904 Quit Days ÷ 10,950 Smoke Days = 17.388%.                 This is my "Quit Days %".                                                           In other words, even at more than 5 years since my last cigarette,                  as of today I have been quit for only 17.388% of the total time I smoked.                                       ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                                         Now, let us take as the second example,                     a smoker who smoked for 30 years, and has been quit for just 4 months.                  These 4 months might seem like a very long time to the ex-smoker,                   but it is nothing when compared to 30 years.                                        This smoker who smoked for 30 years, has 30 years x 365 = 10,950 Smoke Days.                                        Quit time of 4 months = 120 Quit Days.                                      120 Quit Days ÷ 10,950 Smoke Days = Quit Days % of just 1.096%, of the total time the smoker smoked.                                                            ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                     Smoking had a deep impact on us physically, mentally, emotionally, and spiritually.                     A lot of the physical damage can be repaired in a time period of about 10 years,                    but some of it can never be repaired - the damage is done !!!                                       The mental, emotional, and spiritual damage can be repaired much quicker,                   since all of us at one time were never smokers. None of us started life with a cigarette in the mouth !!!                   We all know how to live life as non-smokers, we just need to remember how to do it again.                   And time is what is needed for that to happen.                                      It is my experience working with others,                    that how quickly one becomes very comfortable in these 3 areas                  depends on the person and also their understanding of nicotine addiction.                   The more a person understands the process of separation from the active addiction,                  it seems to me the quicker the good comfort levels of being a non-smoker return.                                        What is important to understand,                    is that the first year as a non-smoker will be spent confronting triggers,                  many of them that are seasonal.                     Once you arrive at your first year anniversary,                     most people can say that they are making very good progress adjusting to life as a non-smoker.                                                          Cristóbal                                                                               Edited December 31, 2017 by Cristóbal                    1                                                                          for all the mathematical wizards out there
OH I likey.... but I prefer Christobal's formula of not including the days before your smoked.... for the simple reason you were not an addict now... so those years don't count because you didn't have nicotine receptors...... Its a quit percentage, not a not smoking percentage... so the period of time before you started smoking... there was nothing to quit...       So... doing the maths (and deducting the ears in between when I didn't smoke with my first quit and pregnancy/feeding)... I have a quit percentage of 5.39% ... srill a ways to go but I will reverse that figure.
    You lost me at Hi...lol...
2 hours ago, Doreensfree said:              You lost me at Hi...lol...          Meeee toooo!! I'm a smairly fart lady, but this made me feel dumb       20 yrs= 7300 days ÷ Quit 1yr 5mos= 515 days = 14.17% quit?
3 hours ago, c9jane29 said:             Meeee toooo!! I'm a smairly fart lady, but this made me feel dumb                               20 yrs= 7300 days ÷                 Quit 1yr 5mos= 515 days = 14.17% quit?                                                      Hi C9Jane29,        You figure your quit "Days %" like this:        Quit Days ÷ Smoke Days = "Quit Days %".     So, for you it is 515 days quit ÷ 7300 smoke days =  7.05%. This is your Quit Days %.       Always remember to compare: how long you have quit ÷ how long you smoked.       You will need to have a quit for 20 years, for your "Quit Days %" = 100%.           Cristóbal
On 3/24/2018 at 12:34 PM, Sazerac said:                                 Deep in the archives, I found another gem from, our friend, Cristóbal                                       Cristóbal's Quit Days %                                         Some people are amazed that even though they may have several weeks or months quit,                     that they still do not feel completely "normal", and continue to miss smoking.                                      When this happens, figure your "Quit Days %" and then you will see why.                                     The way to calculate this is:                                                           Number of Years Smoked x 365 = Smoke Days.                  Number of Days Not Smoked = Quit Days.                                                          Then, Quit Days ÷ Smoke Days = "Quit Days %".                                       ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                     I will go first, to be the first example.                                       I smoked for about 30 years.                                        30 years x 365 = 10,950 Smoke Days.                                                         As of today, I have not smoked for 5 years, 2 months, 7 days.                   This period of times = 1904 Quit Days.                                                          Then, 1904 Quit Days ÷ 10,950 Smoke Days = 17.388%.                 This is my "Quit Days %".                                                           In other words, even at more than 5 years since my last cigarette,                  as of today I have been quit for only 17.388% of the total time I smoked.                                       ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                                         Now, let us take as the second example,                     a smoker who smoked for 30 years, and has been quit for just 4 months.                  These 4 months might seem like a very long time to the ex-smoker,                   but it is nothing when compared to 30 years.                                        This smoker who smoked for 30 years, has 30 years x 365 = 10,950 Smoke Days.                                        Quit time of 4 months = 120 Quit Days.                                      120 Quit Days ÷ 10,950 Smoke Days = Quit Days % of just 1.096%, of the total time the smoker smoked.                                                            ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                     Smoking had a deep impact on us physically, mentally, emotionally, and spiritually.                     A lot of the physical damage can be repaired in a time period of about 10 years,                    but some of it can never be repaired - the damage is done !!!                                       The mental, emotional, and spiritual damage can be repaired much quicker,                   since all of us at one time were never smokers. None of us started life with a cigarette in the mouth !!!                   We all know how to live life as non-smokers, we just need to remember how to do it again.                   And time is what is needed for that to happen.                                      It is my experience working with others,                    that how quickly one becomes very comfortable in these 3 areas                  depends on the person and also their understanding of nicotine addiction.                   The more a person understands the process of separation from the active addiction,                  it seems to me the quicker the good comfort levels of being a non-smoker return.                                        What is important to understand,                    is that the first year as a non-smoker will be spent confronting triggers,                  many of them that are seasonal.                     Once you arrive at your first year anniversary,                     most people can say that they are making very good progress adjusting to life as a non-smoker.                                                          Cristóbal                                                                               Edited December 31, 2017 by Cristóbal                    1                                                                              bumpity bump bump
How many cigs have you not smoked since you quit?   My ticker says 653 at the moment.   I will add up all the replies after a couple of days. It will be illuminating I'm sure.
ALL of them.    The Sarge has NOT SMOKED every last cigarette manufactured, world wide,  since he quit.     Each and every one.     Everywhere.     ALL of them.    EZPZEdited September 25 by sgt.barney
low-balling @ 43,800
    Not sure what my ticker says until I post lol - gosh I am nerdy! Sorry Mightyboosh!     But whatever that count is, I am very proud of it  you should be too! 
    My ticker's broken and hasn't worked for months now when I did have it. I'll make another one later to see what my count is. I  m sure it's a few!
@mrsguest   145 for you.        I think I'll do a running total instead.        44,598 so far.
44 minutes ago, mightyboosh said:                                                       44,598 so far.                                                      you will have to put this  ∞    after the big number, mighty one,  to accomodate Sarge's contribution.       Edited September 24 by Sazerac
40 minutes ago, sgt.barney said:                ALL of them.            The Sarge has NOT SMOKED every last cigarette manufactured, world wid,  since he quit.          Each and every one.             Everywhere.             ALL of them.            EZPZ                 Google says 6.5 trillion are sold each year so roughly you have not smoked 6.5 x 8 yrs = 52 trillion cigarettes (approx). Well done.
3 minutes ago, mightyboosh said:                                     Google says 6.5 trillion are sold each year so roughly you have not smoked 6.5 x 8 yrs = 52 trillion cigarettes (approx). Well done.           that's impressive!
19, 116 poison sticks not smoked for me...hard to believe I am closing in on 20,000! Edited September 24 by Rozuki
    Here's mine!
81,901
    You might want to add mine ..
2 hours ago, mightyboosh said:                                   Google says 6.5 trillion are sold each year so roughly you have not smoked 6.5 x 8 yrs = 52 trillion cigarettes (approx). Well done.           His number may skew your research - lol.        Mine number is coming up at 24,203 at this minute.  Now, I'm gonna watch my ticker for a day or two. I bet it does not change at all - wait and see.Edited September 24 by reciprocity
150,883
    Wow !!!..already ...
    Here is mine
159,260
I'm no math-a-magician, but I can do a bit of figuring.  At 3 years, 6 months, and 15 days quit and considering that I smoked a minimum of 25 cigarettes per day that gives me a number of 32,375 cigarettes not smoked.        However, that's not the whole story.  I was still a drinker when I quit.  When I was drinking, I mean really drinking, it wasn't unusual for me to smoke more than two packs in a day.  So, adjusting my number for alcohol induced inflation brings my total estimated current count to...38,255
197,515
26,598 - yikes.
224,113
    Could we get to a million?
5 hours ago, mightyboosh said:              Could we get to a million?          Easily if every quitter here posted!
On 9/24/2019 at 8:56 AM, sgt.barney said:               ALL of them.            The Sarge has NOT SMOKED every last cigarette manufactured, world wid,  since he quit.          Each and every one.             Everywhere.             ALL of them.            EZPZ                I like that attitude sarge!     see my ticker for the current number
Never used the ticker but I would estimate around 14,500 over the last 3 years. Thank God I finally quit. For me, it`s hard to believe now that I waited so long to finally do it.
17 minutes ago, garry mhudson said:             Never used the ticker but I would estimate around 14,500 over the last 3 years. Thank God I finally quit. For me, it`s hard to believe now that I waited so long to finally do it.          That's true for all of us I think Garry! Why did we ever wait so long?
    Here's mine.
253,606
I'm no mathematician, but roughly 18,000 give or take
271,606
Hello Everyone!         I have been smoking a pack a day for 4-5 years. This is not my first time trying to quit smoking, but this time I decided to finally do it. I am looking for a place to vent and for some sort of support. I will post in here most likely once or twice a day telling ya'll about how I want to smash something or punch a wall  So starting tomorrow (09.24) I will not start my day by puffing on a cigarette. I can already feel how hard it is going to be, but I'm ready. Here it goes!Edited September 23 by Unguided
Congratulations on your quit.   Educate yourself about nicotine addiction, it makes the journey logical.    We look forward to your posts, we are an informative and fun group. Welcome !   Take a look at this10 Ways To Effectively Use This Forum To Help Yourself Quit Smoking      and start out with our friend, Joel Spitzer's lesson on day one.
    Welcome to Quit Train Unguided! We will certainly be happy to help guide you through your quit journey.And yes, come here as often as you wish to rant & rave as well as gather information on nicotine addiction and quitting. You'll get lots of support here and we have all been through the same process so we DO get it! Give us your best and worst - we can take it.        Saz has given you some great links to start with so take advantage of them. Knowledge is power - the power to put your nicotine addiction to sleep. Also, look to the positives. Even in the early days there are positive things happening. Saving money on smokes, you no longer smell like a stale ashtray. Your sense of smell and taste will improve fairly quickly. There's lots to be happy about and those nasty quit symptoms only stay around for a short while. The benefits last forever     I hope you stick around. Those that participate often tend to be successful more times than not. You see, by coming here and interacting with other quitters often, you strengthen your own quit and by supporting others here, the same thing happens - your quit gets stronger. It's a win win for you!
    Welcome aboard Unguided.        There will be challenges along the way when you quit.  However, I found that the actual quit wasn't as bad as the anxiety I had right before I quit.        Don't exhaust yourself with worry leading up to the quit.       You are on the path to setting yourself free.  Enjoy the ride.
    Welcome to our train full of quitters unguided. Great decision you've made to stop smoking 
Don't worry Unguided.  We will guide you through.  You are so smart to quit after only smoking 4 to 5 years.  Many of us have smoked a lifetime.    You only experience a couple of difficult weeks and then it is a matter of changing your thinking.  You can do this.  Educate yourself, stay close to the forum and we are here for you.    You can do this!
On 9/23/2019 at 9:06 PM, Unguided said:             I will post in here most likely once or twice a day telling ya'll about how I want to smash something or punch a wall               Ha, people do become more annoying when you give up. The first thing I noticed when I quit was how much more energy I had after a few days. Hang in there with us, you can do it.
    Welcome aboard ...  How's it going .... read all you can ....learn about this addiction ..
    Thank you brothers and sisters
Wow! Great work Juan. You 2 week mark is quickly approaching.
    Congrats Juan
    Keep up the great work, Juan.
    Congratulations, Juan !  Make sure you reward yourself, this is very important,  especially in the early days.
    thanks
    Congrats! 
    You're doing great Juan  
    where or how can i put a new counter in my signature
14 minutes ago, Juanrmartino2 said:             where or how can i put a new counter in my signature                Theres a tab at the top of the forum page titled Tickers. Click on that and you can create one then copy and paste it into your signature
Tickers      Ticker Instructions        and put your quit date in your profile  so, we (i.e. Reciprocity, thank you !) can keep track of your celebratory threads.
    Well done Juan ...onwards !
FILLING THE PAGES by Eric   A common topic a quitter might talk about since they quit smoking, is the fact that there seems to be void in their life now. Now that they're not smoking it feels as if the days have grown longer and they are unsure of how to fill this time. Sometimes this can actually put stress the new quitter, because this is so unfamiliar to them.   Cigarettes have been so deeply intertwined in their life for so long, that the new quitter is constantly being reminded that they no longer smoke just from everyday activities.    They may ask how do they unwind after work now that they don't smoke? How do they deal with stress, now that they don't smoke? How do they punctuate finishing a task now that they don't smoke?    For the smoker, that cigarette after finishing a task was like putting the period at the end of sentence. Now that they don't smoke, daily tasks can just feel like a long running sentence with no punctuation.    The cigarette was also like the smoker's pause button. If they needed to concentrate on doing something or were under a stressful situation. They would step back, smoke a cigarette and think about how to resolve the problem. Now that they don't smoke, there doesn't seem to be a pause button for the quitter. That magic button that says" Whoa give me a minute" is now gone. Now they are just left with the situation and a very unfamiliar way that they now have to deal with it without the cigarette. One thing that should be pointed out though, is that we have lived our lives and dealt with stress DESPITE smoking, NOT because of it.  There was a fellow quitter that was talking about this and it was really stressing her out. She was having a hard time dealing with stress and everyday scenarios without smoking. She was getting discouraged about this and felt that her life just felt kind of empty since she quit. She felt that there was now a void in her life.    One thing she said though, that I thought was an interesting way to look at it, was that she said that since she quit smoking, was that she felt she now had to rewrite her life.   When I read this, for some reason it reminded me of someone writing a screenplay about the day in the life of a smoker. This is what it might say.  -----------------------------------------------------------------   THE DAY IN THE LIFE OF A SMOKER.    Dear (anonymous)    I'm just making this up, but let's just say this is how your typical day when you smoked would look like.   You wake up. Smoke a cigarette. You get ready for work. Smoke a cigarette. You have breakfast. Smoke a cigarette. You get in your car and drive to work. Smoke a cigarette. You get to work. Smoke a cigarette before going inside. You go to coffee break at work. Smoke a cigarette. You go to lunch. Smoke a cigarette. You go to second break. Smoke a cigarette. Maybe something stressful happens at work. Sneak out and smoke a cigarette. After work, as you drive home, you smoke a cigarette. You get home and unwind. Smoke a cigarette. You cook dinner. Smoke a cigarette. After eating dinner. Smoke a cigarette. Have a glass of wine or beer and of course smoke a cigarette. Watch TV. Smoke a cigarette. Get ready for bed. Smoke a cigarette. Before going to bed. Smoke a cigarette.    Let's say that it took 5 pages to write the screenplay "In the daily life of (anonymous)."  Now that you don't smoke, you're not so much rewriting your daily life, but more of editing out a lot of useless dialog in your screenplay that isn't needed to tell the story. The problem is that now after all that editing, what use to take 5 pages to tell the story, now only takes 3 pages. Now you still have 2 blank pages that you're carrying around with you and you don't know what to do with them. This can cause anxiety. You have been so used to writing your daily life with 5 pages that writing it with only having to use 3 pages feels like there is a void in the story.   Really take a look at the dialog that you edited though and put that down on the 2 remaining pages. Here's what it would say: Smoke a cigarette. Smoke a cigarette. Smoke a cigarette. Smoke a cigarette. Smoke a cigarette. Smoke a cigarette. Smoke a cigarette. Smoke a cigarette. Smoke a cigarette. Smoke a cigarette. Smoke a cigarette. Smoke a cigarette. Smoke a cigarette. Smoke a cigarette. Smoke a cigarette. Smoke a cigarette. Smoke a cigarette. Smoke a cigarette. etc, etc.   You can see how useless this dialog is. It doesn't even help tell your story and on it's own it makes no sense. It's just repeated blabber. You have two choices now. You can either take these pages and just throw them away, because you no longer need them anymore. Or you can take these two remaining pages and add something to your story. Something that maybe you've wanted to add for sometime now, but just have never done it, because this addiction was taking up those two pages. These two pages are no longer being wasted on telling the story of your addiction. They are now yours to tell any story that you wish to tell.   It isn't so much that since you quit smoking, that there is a void in your life. It is more that smoking created that void, because it took away from you. That was YOUR time being wasted, it was NOT being filled. Now that you have freed yourself from cigarettes, don't think of it as leaving a hole in your life. Think of it as giving back the endless possibilities of living life as YOU again.  Also don't think that you need a cigarette to deal with life's stress.  It isn't that you were able to deal with stress better when you smoked. It's just that you've done it for so long that way, that you are having to relearn how to do it without cigarettes. It's new and unfamiliar. Smoking under stress was a combination of relieving withdrawal, but it also gave you a minute or two to reflect on what was causing the initial stress.    If you're under stress and where the times you would smoke a cigarette, what I would do is stop. Step back and give yourself a moment just like you would do when you smoked, but now breathe deeply, calm yourself and focus on what you need to do to alleviate what is causing the stress.   Don't feel that if you're under stress that you have to attack it head on because cigarettes are no longer there to buffer what it happening. You can very easily do this without smoking. You can step back and give yourself a moment to collect yourself and you can do it without cigarettes. They are a useless middleman and you know that cigarettes don't relieve stress. They only relieve withdrawal. They don't deserve that kind of credit. You should be proud of yourself, because you have taken your pages back.    The pages are yours now. Fill them any way you choose   Eric
    When I was about to quit, I thought, "So what to do instead of smoke during brief pauses? Like times you would stop and do nothing else except smoke a cig.     It does take some getting used to, trying to get through those pauses without a cigarette.  It never was as bad as I had imagined. I guess anticipation is usually worse (or better) than the actual event. One gets used to it pretty quick though. I know these days when it comes time that I would stop specifically for a cigarette, I do not often even think of smoking.
    For newbies 
    Another great read. Before I quit I did have thoughts of what will I do now. That was me...everything revolved around that cigarette. Now I am relearning how to do things without one and it is difficult at times but I am slowly learning how to fill those last two pages. Thanks for the bump n
Yes - this is what takes the longest time is learning how to live life as nonsmokers. It's only when we quit that we realize just how much of our time was consumed be smoking activities! It's quite shocking actually.Edited March 21 by reciprocity
On 8/22/2018 at 4:31 PM, Nancy said:                For the smoker, that cigarette after finishing a task was like putting the period at the end of sentence. Now that they don't smoke, daily tasks can just feel like a long running sentence with no punctuation.                That's a great way to phrase it and true.
    Here is more information about 'doing nothing'   
    and this about taking breaks            Video explains how most smokers productivity and level of personal comfort are negatively impacted  by the chronic need to having to smoke to alleviate the symptoms of nicotine withdrawal.        Smoking breaks      It is amazing what the logic of a smoker is in regarding these little breaks.   It starts with a smoker popping into drug withdrawal, breaking his or her train of thought or physical stride,  and then saying or thinking to himself or herself, "Oh, I think I need a break, I better go get a cigarette."       What you will soon realize after quitting is that you will all of a sudden start projects   and then follow them through to completion without taking these breaks. You will generally get them done significantly faster and more accurately for you won't have those constant breaks distracting you from the projects.   Soon you will realize the truth of what smoking was doing to you time wise all those years.     It was never that you were needing a break and thus going for cigarettes.   It was that you were NEEDING cigarettes and then having to take breaks. The week you quit your efficiency may suffer, but you will make up for that lost time in a matter of days,  and soon you will find yourself a more efficient person for the rest of your life.  To keep this newfound efficiency, as well as all of the other benefits of no longer being controlled by cigarettes  is as simple as always remembering now to never take another puff!  Joel
    It's Stoptober soon here in the UK. Is there a similar thing elsewhere in the World?    Anyhoo, it will be the first time that I don't have to avoid and hang my head in shame at the public info ads on the TV. I've allowed myself to feel a little smug about it, just a little.  
Here in the states we have the Great American smokeout. This year it's November 21. And yes, I felt the same as you did on that day......
    Go ahead and feel as smug as you like. You've earned it!
    I always would say I was going to quit for the Great American Smoke Out.    Well, that day always came and went.
I don't think there's any special stop smoking day or month here in Canada. At least not that I'm aware of. Mind you, my wife tells me all the time that I don't pay attention to things, or something like that?Edited September 26 by reciprocity
This can't be a complete list, I am sure.  There's a good chance you weren't aware of at least one of the diseases.  I would have never connected blindness to smoking.   
Blimey.
You can add feet to ths list....I was at risk of losing mine.....
You can add feet to ths list....I was at risk of losing mine.....I remember Doreen, was it your circulation causing your problem?  
It was the blood was not flowing properly....My ankles had thick black bruises.....they were sore ...After a few weeks of quiting ,I felt the difference......I still have some deep bruises,but getting better all the time.....
I am 6 years down the line from Cervical Cancer, I now get tested every year, my results came through last week "All Clear", my friends mum has problems with her feet and has been told if she doesn't stop smoking she will lose her legs, can't believe I still smoked for that 6 years afterwards!!  The Nicotine Addict can tightly hold you in its grip, so relieve I am now finally free,
Good post Colleen.  So many things are related to smoking.Just to add more: sleep disorders, cataracts, sense of smell and taste buds to name a few.  And if you have inherited medical conditions like diabetes and smoke it causes many more significant complications. It was the blood was not flowing properly....My ankles had thick black bruises.....they were sore ...After a few weeks of quiting ,I felt the difference......I still have some deep bruises,but getting better all the time..... I am so happy that your feet are improving Doreen.
Love this post Colleen!  It's is important for us to remember where we came from.   I had several of those conditions and they have either improved significantly or are gone all together.
macular degeneration is linked to smokers smoking causes more that just lung cancer. I am glad you posted this because when people think smoking they think breathing/lung they dont realize the other ways it harms your body. 
Oy vey. 
Colleen, awesome post!  It never hurts to be reminded what smoking can cause... you never know who is reading this that will finally choose to become a non-smoker because something clicked in their head. I have very minor COPD (no drugs, no inhalers), I'm lucky that I quit smoking when I did... I wasn't even diagnosed with it until 2 years after I'd quit, even though I figured I had it because of the shortness of breath if I did a lot of stuff. Jackie, it's wonderful that you are now 6 years free, I'm really happy to read this! :)
Almost 2 years clear of cervical cancer here too, thankfully I was checked every 6 months after loads of weird cells over the years, sliced and diced in the end. Weird though, no one ever linked it to smoking, then I checked (after I quit) and they are linked, strange no doc ever told me they were? Don't think it would have made a difference (!!) but still....
I love this post, and images often make a bigger impact on me. Ive saved that pic on my phone :)
My grandfather died of pancreatic cancer 15 years ago, he was a heavy smoker.  Before then, I had associated smoking with lung cancer or smoker's cough.  Around the same time my mom, was found to have an aortic aneurysm, a heavy smoker herself.  My grandmother was diagnosed with COPD a few years ago, even though she hadn't smoked for many years.  I was diagnosed with COPD at 37, it is no longer an elderly person's disease.  I am willing to bet that there are a lot more diseases and conditions out there caused by smoking.
Almost 2 years clear of cervical cancer here too, thankfully I was checked every 6 months after loads of weird cells over the years, sliced and diced in the end. Weird though, no one ever linked it to smoking, then I checked (after I quit) and they are linked, strange no doc ever told me they were? Don't think it would have made a difference (!!) but still....Blimey luv. You don't do things by halves do you? What a warrior!
Bump ..
It's unreal how it just affects everything. My Mom passed away from cervical cancer just over 8 years ago. She was young - in her 50's. She smoked right up until the end. It was just heartbreaking. Yet, it didn't stop any of the rest of the family, myself included, from smoking. It's just so awful to think about all the damage and destruction cigarettes do, in so many ways.
I'm bumping this because tomorrow we find out if my mom's feet can be saved. She's smoked all 55 years of my life. I'm not sure when she started because she gets mad if you ask her anything about her smoking.    In June my sister noticed my mom's toes were scabby and pus filled. My sis took her to a walk in clinic who directed her to the hospital. After x rays and a night in the hospital it was determined she had an infection in them and sent home with antibiotics.   They didn't work. Now after an MRI it's been determined that her circulation is so bad in her legs that if this last ditch procedure they're going to try doesn't work gangrene will set in and she will lose her legs within a couple of months.   She will not even think about quitting smoking but for those of you who are still on the fence, now is a great day to quit.....
    Geez Jillar - that's terrible! I am praying that there is some way you mom's feet/legs can be saved. I can't even imagine your frustration over the fact that your mother still won't quit.         Stark reminder that the devastating effects of years of smoking can have on one's body. Pleeeeeze QUIT! Even worse is the reminder of just how powerful a hold nicotine addiction has over us. Put your addiction to sleep people - QUIT!
    Wow, @jillar what gruesome news and a reality check.    There is nothing good about tobacco and nicotine addiction. Nothing.        I hope your Mom listens to somebody and stops.  I am so relieved that you built a sturdy quit, Jillar.      This is frightening and so damn sad.
I post this in hope it will help somebody lurking here with vascular problems   and also to make sure we all understand the vicious implications of nicotine addiction.         here is the text        “I’m mad that I can’t smoke anymore! It is so unfair.”  This statement was angrily expressed by a clinic participant while introducing himself to the group at the third session of his smoking clinic. He had been totally off smoking for two full days, and was absolutely disgusted about it.   I asked him why he was giving up cigarettes if he was so miserable about the prospect of quitting.      His reply was quite incredible. In front of more than 20 people he said,    “I have peripheral vascular disease. I have had gangrene on one foot three times and already have lost a couple of toes.    I am going to lose that leg in the near future. To tell you the truth, I hope they take it off soon. It hurts so much all of the time.  I hope they just take it off and give me an artificial limb that won’t hurt anymore.    My other leg is also affected, as well as both of my arms.  Do you know why I have to quit? My family begged and pleaded for me to stop when I was first diagnosed, but they finally gave up.   They now say, ‘Keep on smoking, Dad, but be forewarned–once you lose your arms, we are not going to buy or light your cigarettes for you.   You can lie and cheat now, but you won’t have a chance of sneaking then.’       I couldn’t believe they were telling me that. I immediately enrolled in the clinic. It is so unfair, but what choice do I have? I hate that I have to quit.”        “Do you realize what you are saying?”, I replied. You are mad that you can’t smoke. But what is it that really is making you mad? The fact that you are going to lose a leg from smoking?       No, you have accepted that quite well. In fact, you are looking forward to getting rid of the one quickly because it hurts so much. You are not even upset about losing the other leg, even though it would mean you would probably never walk again.   Are you mad that you will lose your arms? No, that is okay with you, too.   Sure, with no legs or arms you would be totally dependent on others, a complete cripple.    But that still is not the basis of your anger.  What are you mad about?     You are mad at how unfair your children are because they are not going to let you smoke once you lose limbs.”   Without hesitation he replied, “Yeah, how could they do that to me?”        Some of the clinic participants looked on in disbelief at the exchange that just occurred.  Some of them thought he was crazy.  Others exhibited a sense of shame, for, even though their own conditions may not have been so graphic,  they recognized his attitude in their own thinking and they were not very proud of that realization.        Two days later, the participant with peripheral vascular disease    who had been so traumatized by the thought of quitting smoking was expressing great relief in being free from cigarettes.       Once he beat the initial grip of addiction, he recognized just how irrational he was and the true destructive nature of his cigarettes. He was already feeling some physical improvements in circulation,   and, in fact, had starting forming a thin layer of skin underneath a scab that he thought would never improve.      He was still exhibiting anxiety about not smoking, but now from a totally different perspective.        He feared smoking and prayed that he would never again get caught in the grip of nicotine dependence.   A dependence that he now recognized once controlled his thoughts and behavior   to the point of his being willing to give up his limbs, independence, physical abilities, and even his dignity.     He was completely justified in maintaining these fears. If given the opportunity, cigarettes would once again regain such control.  But now, all he needed to do to insure that cigarettes would never again exert such a grip was to NEVER TAKE ANOTHER PUFF!                   Edited September 26 by Sazerac
11 hours ago, jillar said:              I'm bumping this because tomorrow we find out if my mom's feet can be saved. She's smoked all 55 years of my life. I'm not sure when she started because she gets mad if you ask her anything about her smoking.                    In June my sister noticed my mom's toes were scabby and pus filled. My sis took her to a walk in clinic who directed her to the hospital. After x rays and a night in the hospital it was determined she had an infection in them and sent home with antibiotics.                   They didn't work. Now after an MRI it's been determined that her circulation is so bad in her legs that if this last ditch procedure they're going to try doesn't work gangrene will set in and she will lose her legs within a couple of months.                   She will not even think about quitting smoking but for those of you who are still on the fence, now is a great day to quit.....         Reading this brought home my own horror.... I was so near to losing my both feet ..so now first hand ...what your Mum is dealing with ...   My ankles were black ...and bruised and so sore ... I did take my doctor's advice to try and quit ...I found this place and these wonderful people who I swear got me through it all... My feet were saved ..but I still have some battle scars left ...to remind me ...never take another puff..   I'm sending positive thoughts to your mum ...and the strength to quit ...
    I can't believe this is what the cig ads were like.                            
    They were brutal ads for sure, in  terms of what we now know. At the time though, the truth was just beginning to be discovered.    Have you watched these yet mighty? If not be sure you do. Pretty unbelievable stuff          
    When I watched these documenteries...it was as if  I switched on the light bulb...  I got it !!!.....what I kept blinkered all my smoking years ...erupted before my eyes.. If was a turning point for me ...   Please if any newbies has not watched these ..they are a must ...    
Yesterday I was browsing around on amazon video and stumbled across a nostalgia video made up entirely of old time commercials from the 50s, 60s, and I believe the early 70s.  There were several smoking ads included.  I got to admit that the animated marching Lucky Strikes was entertaining.   There were quite a few for Newport’s (which must have been new at the time, I even vaguely remember seeing those as a child)      if if you want to see brazen, hard sell ads for cigarettes look no further than those old American TV commercials
    I don't remember ciggie ads on the telly but I do remember billboards and magazine ads. The one day cricket series used to be called the Benson and hedges but it got renamed and racing cars used to be sponsored by tobacco companies but not down here since I was a kid.
I googled this and didn't realise it was so recent that it was allowed on F1 cars. Just think of how much lobbying and kicking and screaming the tobacco companies did as they saw their ads being banned all over the place. I remember the snooker World Championships being sponsored by Benson and Hedges and the players lighting up during broadcasts.        "The advertising of cigarettes on Formula 1 cars has been banned since 2008. The 2008 Bahrain Grand Prix was the last time the Marlboro logo was seen on a Ferrari F1 car."
A lot of those old cigarette ads are mind-blowing.  I have seen numerous variations of ads where doctors were endorsing Camels.  Unbelievable by today's standards.     I started smoking around 1993 and 1994 and wasn't exposed to cigarette ads on television.  I was pretty sickened to recently see an old cigarette ad featuring The Flintstones, a cartoon I used to love when I was a kid.  Really sickening.
    Not content simply selling poison to children, the folks at Marlboro decided it was a good idea to use babies to sell poison to adults.
1 hour ago, johnny5 said:               A lot of those old cigarette ads are mind-blowing.  I have seen numerous variations of ads where doctors were endorsing Camels.  Unbelievable by today's standards.                                     I started smoking around 1993 and 1994 and wasn't exposed to cigarette ads on television.  I was pretty sickened to recently see an old cigarette ad featuring The Flintstones, a cartoon I used to love when I was a kid.  Really sickening.                                       Oh man! Talk about advertising your cigarette brand to kids - WOW!! So Johnny. Did you end up smoking Winston's?                    Just curious if this stuff had an effect on you personally?
29 minutes ago, Boo said:               Not content simply selling poison to children, the folks at Marlboro decided it was a good idea to use babies to sell poison to adults.             Perfect     And; what the hell does "over smoked" mean anyway? Edited September 24 by reciprocity
13 minutes ago, reciprocity said:               Oh man! Talk about advertising your cigarette brand to kids - WOW!! So Johnny. Did you end up smoking Winston's?                    Just curious if this stuff had an effect on you personally?             I started out smoking Marlboro Reds and eventually switched down to mostly Camel Lights and Marlboro Lights stupidly believing that the "light" part made them a bit safer (another marketing trick).  Those were my three go-to brands.        I remember bumming a few Winstons early on but I mainly stuck with the brands I just mentioned.         Doesn't matter, all cigarettes are garbage.  It is sick how big tobacco marketed them.Edited September 24 by johnny5
9 hours ago, reciprocity said:                                  Perfect                     And; what the hell does "over smoked" mean anyway?              Over smoked is what we are....over the fact we were ever fool enough to have smoked!
G’day       This is one of the adds when I first started smoking.   Recognise the bloke in the add? It’s Paul Hogen ....a long time before crocodile Dundee he was the face for Winfield cigerettes. Hard to believe they were 40c a pack. This was the world I lived in in the mid seventies, hard to imagine these days.  Chris
20 hours ago, reciprocity said:             And; what the hell does "over smoked" mean anyway?              Good question.  I suppose the vultures at Marlboro were trying to tout their product's ability to poison you without you feeling like you're being poisoned.        When you peddle addiction and death, even the folks on Madison Avenue have a hard time polishing that turd.
22 hours ago, reciprocity said:                                 Perfect                     And; what the hell does "over smoked" mean anyway?              It's just a meaningless marketing term, that sounds good, like "synergy".   Lucky strikes used "it's toasted".   Toasting is a process done to all tobacco (as I understand), but hey it sounded good in a jingle.
    THANK YOU MY FAMILY BROTHERS AND SISTERS
Onward to Day 12!   Keep working at it Juan
    Congratulations, Juan.  You will never have to go through this again, Juan. Freedom is delicious.
    Way to go Juan....Go get that freedom!!!
    THANK YOU BROTHERS AND SISTERS
    Great stuff Juan ....keep going ...
I see day 11 just ahead   Keep going!
    thank you brothers and sisters
    You are building trust in yourself, Juan.   Great work, congratulations.     
    thank you all my family
we love you, bebe !Edited September 24 by Sazerac
    You are doing a great thing, Juan.  Keep up the awesome work.
    Good work Juan
I tried quitting with the patch December 27 last year. It worked great! No issues at all.   This year, I got a new script, same exact patch - and I am having a hard time keeping it sticking to my skin!   It's also itching/scratching me a lot.  Has anyone ever experienced this? Any tips? I switch up the location of my patch each time I change it, etc. I don't know what else to try.
54 minutes ago, mrsguest said:              I don't know what else to try.              You can always try cold turkey. No mess, no fuss, it's free and the quickest way to Freedom.    Being nicotine free is excellent and only takes a few days. The rest is adjusting yourself to your new life.    That is the exciting part.      But, if you want patches, I am sure somebody will be along to help with your concerns.      All quits are good quits !  and congratulations on yours, mrsguest.
    I think I would talk to the pharmacist.  Maybe they are a bad batch.  I did try them years ago but ended up quitting cold turkey.
    The strangest thing just happened!  I took off my patch and threw it away to give cold turkey a whirl, and my dog got super excited, he started jumping around and acting weird, licking my face - just out of the blue!    Maybe it's a sign? 
1 hour ago, mrsguest said:              The strangest thing just happened!          I took off my patch and threw it away to give cold turkey a whirl, and my dog got super excited, he started jumping around and acting weird, licking my face - just out of the blue!            Maybe it's a sign?          I would definitely take that as a clue.  Why put off the inevitable.  You have to get the nicotine out of your system anyhow, why not just do it.  Just keep looking ahead and keep you eye on the prize - a life free of smoking.
1 hour ago, mrsguest said:              The strangest thing just happened!          I took off my patch and threw it away to give cold turkey a whirl, and my dog got super excited, he started jumping around and acting weird, licking my face - just out of the blue!            Maybe it's a sign?              You can do cold turkey, it is quick and your body will really appreciate the CLEAN as does your beloved K9.     Stay with us, and call on your inner fortitude.  You may be uncomfortable but, this will not last long.  Believe us when we say that !      NOPE your way through any crave/triggers or gruesome moments.   Use breath as an alternative.  Nice deep, slow breaths (in through your nose, out through mouth)        Keep juice handy and water and your lollipops.      Pay attention to  H.A.L.T.      You Quit Smoking, darling.  Congratulations !   You needn't be a slave to nicotine EVER again !     woof woof woof woof
    I had issues getting a "store-brand" patch to stick; no rash though. I gave them away and went cold turkey after the second day of my quit. It wasn't easy but it certainly was doable and I'm happy it went that way because then I didn't have to deal with getting the nicotine out of my system later on. It was all done at the beginning. 
    Why not stick a regular plaster on ...sometimes it mind of matter ...   Going cold turkey ...is the quickest way to quit ...    Don't over think things ...you can do it ..
    That was definitely a sign mrsguest      The next week or so may be a bit of a struggle while your body is ridding itself of nicotine but you can do it. Give a shout out if you need us, we'll be here  
    I feel GREAT since I threw that patch away!     I know it might be a temporary high but it feels so good right now 
    Your a beautiful non smoker ...you should be happy and proud ..
    Yes - focus on the positives. That's a huge help in those early days. Not only are you seeing some benefits already but there are so many yet to come and the best part is they stay for good! Those ticker stats also keep adding up too!
15 minutes ago, Doreensfree said:               Your a beautiful non smoker ...you should be happy and proud ..         awww thank you Doreen  you are too sweet!               3 minutes ago, reciprocity said:                 Those ticker stats also keep adding up too!            LOVING the ticker stats! About to hit 4 whole days
Sunshine - I have been thinking about the gum, but I took this patch off like 4 hours ago and I seriously feel zero difference.     I am wondering if the patch wasn't even working on me because it wasn't sticking correctly or something.
1 hour ago, Sunshine59 said:                I recommend few nicotine gums in the first 2 weeks , then you can go cold turkey                With all due respect sunshine, you've been trying to get your forever quit since last November using nicotine gums and it hasn't worked too well for you so I wonder why you keep recommending them?    Mrsguest, the sooner we get the nicotine out of our bodies the sooner we can go through and be done with the misery. You're doing great
Each person needs to do what they are comfortable with in terms of how they quit but here' a fact about nicotine in your bloodstream. It takes 3 days, 72 hours, to rid nicotine from your body no matter how many cigs you smoked per day. That's the relatively easy part of quitting. It's reshaping your daily life so you can function comfortably without cigs that takes a long time and a steadfast commitment over that time. Whatever you do, once you suspect nicotine is out of your body DO NOT reintroduce it under any circumstances. That's a step backwards!
13 minutes ago, reciprocity said:               Each person needs to do what they are comfortable with in terms of how they quit but here' a fact about nicotine in your bloodstream. It takes 3 days, 72 hours, to rid nicotine from your body no matter how many cigs you smoked per day. That's the relatively easy part of quitting. It's reshaping your daily life so you can function comfortably without cigs that takes a long time and a steadfast commitment over that time. Whatever you do, once you suspect nicotine is out of your body DO NOT reintroduce it under any circumstances. That's a step backwards!           I feel very strange. I do not feel any different from when I had the patch on. I suspect the patch was not working properly and I have been 'cold turkey' this entire time.     No wonder I have been so utterly miserable this time! It would explain the mood swings and awful cravings I would get.
    I used the patch. Just be careful as if it was working you still have nicotine in your system which might be why you haven't noticed anything yet. Not trying to pee on your parade. 
    I totally understand, thank you Lilly! I have an extra in my purse in case I start freaking out. 
4 hours ago, Sunshine59 said:               Cold turkey is a good way .                 But your mind in my opinion will end up in a lot of conflicted thoughts .                   You are not sure if its cigarette related or something else .                                       The cold turkey method needs  a very cool comfortable environment to deal with all the little frustrations you end up with.                 I still use a nicotine gum .                                        It keeps my mouth occupied and i don't feel bored .                                     I recommend few nicotine gums in the first 2 weeks , then you can go cold turkey                                        Maybe we should have a poll about it ,                  Nicotine gums or Cold turkey                    Sunshine, you have never gone cold turkey and are STILL promoting gum   Gum which you have abused for a LONG time.  PLEASE, stop it !   All quits are good quits but for you to be promoting gum    when people are ready to go Cold Turkey     is just WRONG WRONG WRONG.  STOP IT.        Cold turkey does NOT take a special environment.    Quite the contrary, it is simply about CHOICE.  You have everything you need to go CTurkey. It is all about natural YOU and choice. You DON"T need anything more.    Edited September 23 by Sazerac
    and super video from our friend, Joel    
3 hours ago, mrsguest said:             No wonder I have been so utterly miserable this time! It would explain the mood swings and awful cravings I would get.          I was the same way lol. Bitchy as hell in those early days. Not very nice to be around and cravings that seemed to have no perceivable start or end to them. Hey, I got through it by sheer will power at times in those early days. I WAS NOT giving up no matter what. And you know what ..... it worked  Time seemed to stand still in the first couple of weeks or so but eventually started moving again (thank god)    It does sound like maybe you weren't getting a nicotine feed off those patches so maybe just stay the course without any other quit aid. You can come here to rant and rave when you need to. We get it
    The longer you go without nicotine, the better you will feel.   Sure, you may have some gruesome moments, some bitchy moments but, pfffttt...   the discomfort is replaced with some euphoria and a renewed trust and confidence in yourself.    
39 minutes ago, Sazerac said:               The longer you go without nicotine, the better you will feel.                   Sure, you may have some gruesome moments, some bitchy moments but, pfffttt...                   the discomfort is replaced with some euphoria and a renewed trust and confidence in yourself.                               Today is my first day. Going CRAZY!!!!
    New here today so excuse me if I don't know what I'm doing, cause I don't. First day without smoking and in need of some support.    
    Welcome @Twice, congrats on quitting  You'll get all the support you need and want here so don't hesitate to lean on us  Maybe go to our Introduction forum and introduce yourself to everyone, we love quitters  
1 hour ago, Twice said:             Today is my first day. Going CRAZY!!!!          Awwww You are right at home here, Twice     I am a super bitch today, excuse my French! And time seems to go on and on and on .....
2 hours ago, Twice said:                New here today so excuse me if I don't know what I'm doing, cause I don't. First day without smoking and in need of some support.           Hi Twice.  You are right at home here and we are here for you.  You can go to the introduction area and tell us a little about yourself.    Don't worry we have all been where you are.  Congratulations on deciding to quit.  Education yourself and stay close and we will guide you through.
1 hour ago, mrsguest said:              I am a super bitch today, excuse my French! And time seems to go on and on and on .....             mrsguest.  This too shall pass.  I couldn't stand myself for about 4 weeks  in my quit.  Thank goodness my husband loved me.  Believe me it is all worth it.
1 hour ago, Twice said:             Today is my first day. Going CRAZY!!!!              Hey, Twice  Check out 10 Ways To Effectively Use This Forum To Help Yourself Quit Smoking       and for your First Day of Freedom, check out our friend, Joel Spitzer
    Welcome aboard Twice ....   Read all you can on our main discussion board ...   All the green pinned posts ...a great place to start ...    Most of us were a bit crabby at the start...remember all is  temporary ...the prize at the end is so worth the fight    Freedom ...from a killer addiction..
    Welcome Twice! Good to have you aboard. Grit your teeth and honor your commitment to yourself for a better life ahead!  Plenty of great information and support here on the train and it WILL help you.
17 hours ago, mrsguest said:                I am a super bitch today, excuse my French! And time seems to go on and on and on .....             You've hit the bullseye of early quit! Time standing still, ready to explode on anybody and everybody, mind on the spin cycle.  Embrace the suck because it's all temporary. Better days are coming - stay quit!!       As one of our noble members once said; "You can't stop the waves but you can learn to surf!" So, get your board out @mrsguest ..... Surfs Up  Edited September 24 by reciprocity
20 hours ago, mrsguest said:                Awwww You are right at home here, Twice             I am a super bitch today, excuse my French! And time seems to go on and on and on .....             Turn a negative into a positive...  Time is going on and on ...and my body is healing every second ..   I don't stick anything in my mouth and set fire to it .....
*Want better Health immediately ?                  *Want extra Money in your pocket now ?    *Want more enjoyment from Sexual encounters tonight ?         Well then, it's Time to free yourself from nicotine addiction !   You can start by giving yourself 72 hoursbecause in three days nicotine begins to leave your body. Take the weekend and pull the covers over your head if you need to.Strengthen your resolve and understand that any discomfort is temporary.  Give yourself another three days...give yourself Time. What else are you doing that could possibly be more important than saving your life, liberating your sovereigns and making you better in bed ?   You only have to go through this ONCE so,  enjoy the ride.Soon you will be seeing astoundingly positive results.You are evolving into a new person, more honest with yourself, much more confident,    happier, healthier, wealthier,  and wow !   out of this world in-between the sheets.    No kidding.          Edited June 15, 2018 by Sazerac
Guys, if you need yet another reason to quit, here is a big one: cigarettes are erection killers.  Smoking is a major contributing factor in both high blood pressure and atherosclerosis.  Throw in the fact that nicotine is a vasoconstrictor and we are talking severely diminished blood flow.  Cigarettes also diminish the amount of nitric oxide in the body.  Summation: if you value the ability to attain and maintain an erection...STOP SMOKING! Put some hope in your rope, just say NOPE.
It is beneficial for Women, too.Blood circulation ! essential for arousal in Lady Parts. :)
    While women are not as gifted as Hyenas,    the benefits of quitting smoking are abundant.
    bumpity bump bump
    Sex? Yes please! 
    Great post Sally, yet another positive of quitting 
    someone was asking...
    bumping (for a friend)
4 hours ago, Sazerac said:              bumping (for a friend)              More like bumping with a friend....     Am I right?
    I hate to admit this but sometimes i would smoke WHILE having sex or "alone". Kind of a brave thing when smoking RYO because if you ever tried one, you know the cherry isn't always real stable.   But yeah I once had this partner and we would adjust our positions so we could safely smoke while in "action". Maybe have to stop oral action to take a puff off the nicotine stick, but never during orgasm.       To this day I have NO clue how i gave up smoking and stayed quit. Crapola hell I was hooked.
18 minutes ago, Jet Black said:             I hate to admit this but sometimes i would smoke WHILE having sex or "alone". Kind of a brave thing when smoking RYO because if you ever tried one, you know the cherry isn't always real stable.                   But yeah I once had this partner and we would adjust our positions so we could safely smoke while in "action". Maybe have to stop oral action to take a puff off the nicotine stick, but never during orgasm.                                       To this day I have NO clue how i gave up smoking and stayed quit. Crapola hell I was hooked.                And they say romance is dead
9 minutes ago, Lilly said:                                  And they say romance is dead        Oh yeah it was romantic how we would be blowing smoke in each others' faces and thinking nothing of it.
32 minutes ago, Jet Black said:                                 Oh yeah it was romantic how we would be blowing smoke in each others' faces and thinking nothing of it.             I think that joke went straight over your head
    Too much information..... J was enjoying my lunch ..!!!!!
Somehow I'm no more attractive to women after I quit smoking than I was when smoking.   What is this "sex" thing everyone is talking about?Edited November 27, 2018 by Wayne045
On 7/20/2016 at 11:28 PM, Sazerac said:                         *Want better Health immediately ?                  *Want extra Money in your pocket now ?    *Want more enjoyment from Sexual encounters tonight ?         Well then, it's Time to free yourself from nicotine addiction !                  You can start by giving yourself 72 hoursbecause in three days nicotine begins to leave your body.          Take the weekend and pull the covers over your head if you need to.Strengthen your resolve and understand that any discomfort is temporary.                 Give yourself another three days...give yourself Time.          What else are you doing that could possibly be more important than saving your life, liberating your sovereigns and making you better in bed ?                  You only have to go through this ONCE so,  enjoy the ride.Soon you will be seeing astoundingly positive results.You are evolving into a new person, more honest with yourself, much more confident,         happier, healthier, wealthier,          and wow !           out of this world in-between the sheets.            No kidding.                                                                     Bump bump bumpity bump bump NOPE NOPE NOPE-ity NOPE NOPE
On 7/20/2016 at 11:28 PM, Sazerac said:                         *Want better Health immediately ?                  *Want extra Money in your pocket now ?    *Want more enjoyment from Sexual encounters tonight ?         Well then, it's Time to free yourself from nicotine addiction !                  You can start by giving yourself 72 hoursbecause in three days nicotine begins to leave your body.          Take the weekend and pull the covers over your head if you need to.Strengthen your resolve and understand that any discomfort is temporary.                 Give yourself another three days...give yourself Time.          What else are you doing that could possibly be more important than saving your life, liberating your sovereigns and making you better in bed ?                  You only have to go through this ONCE so,  enjoy the ride.Soon you will be seeing astoundingly positive results.You are evolving into a new person, more honest with yourself, much more confident,         happier, healthier, wealthier,          and wow !           out of this world in-between the sheets.            No kidding.                                                                     Bump for our newbies....read through the thread, the testimonials are outtasight and True.
    Thank you brothers and sisters
    Good to hear Juan !!
    I'm talking about e cigs. I love the look of and like to handle anything that's well engineered especially small, heavy and chunky items. E cigs fit that criteria perfectly and I'm sure I'm not alone in appreciating nicely made objects. Even the boxes they come in are a cut above a run-of-the-mill box. They've also become very tactile and the colours can be very attractive. In all honesty, they're a nice piece of kit but that's part of the problem now. Apart from delivering nicotine, they're a very attractive fashion item.    Cigarette manufacturers have always tried to make their product appealing but they just had a box to work on whereas e cig design has endless possibilities. That must be stacking up to be a big problem as technology advances irrevocably. The liquids also smell good enough to drink - cookies and cream, pear drops, McDonald's apple pie etc etc. you name it, they have it. Even the dedicated e cig shops look trendy, upmarket and inviting.  Now that the dangers of vaping are being realised, I wonder if the e cig makers will at some point be forced to make their product drab with graphic warning images on them, as cigarette makers were latterly obliged to do with their packaging.  At the moment the whole package just looks too good.
    Don't fall for it Phil, it's garbage and is causing a lot of illnesses from using them! The Trump administration is moving to ban flavors just for that reason
I don't see the allure of them myself but I get your point. Younger peeps want something slick, substantial and easy to use and carry. Something that when they put it to their lips, it's very different from a cigarette. You may be right on future regulations surrounding e-cigs. I'm imagining an e-cig. in the shape of a skull & cross bones perhaps or at least a label with such attached to the packaging     And what about taxation on not only vape devices but the juice pods or whatever they're called? Cigarettes are heavily taxed in most countries. As far as I know, there is no such "health tax" on e-cigs or the juice pods they sell. I heard and advert today on local radio for a "starter kit" at $12.95. Includes a vape pen & juice pod. And, oh yeah .... when will the public advertising stop as well. I haven't heard an ad for cigarettes since I can remember!
15 hours ago, jillar said:              Don't fall for it Phil, it's garbage and is causing a lot of illnesses from using them! The Trump administration is moving to ban flavors just for that reason              Don't worry, I've no intention of ever using one. It's just that now I'm a free man, I can see the whole NRT subject and its dangers more clearly.
    As we all know ...the cigarette packets looked good too....all that lovely gold wrapping ...with all those lovely tokens inside ...and the beautiful gold lighters you could buy ...    If it had were murdering scum bags on the pack ,no one would have bought them ..    It's all a con ...  I just glad to be around to say this ...millions haven't been so lucky ..
Stoptober   What is Stoptober?  Stoptober is a 28 day long event run each October during which participants are encouraged to stop smoking. Public Health England created the annual campaign and continues to fund it. The idea is that participants pledge themselves to not smoke during the 28 day period, with a mind to giving up altogether. Over 250000 smokers took part last year and even more are expected to sign up for 2015 and beyond.  When Did Stoptober Start    The first Stoptober campaign launched in 2012 and was an outstanding success with the power of social media very much being involved in the popularity for the event. There has been a massive amount of buzz for the Stoptober events with celebs joining in and the nation standing together to encourage each other to quit smoking and enjoy the benefits of doing so.  Why Does it Work?   The idea behind the event is based on evidence that shows that after twenty eight days without a cigarette smokers are as much as five times more likely to give up smoking for good.   It is widely recognised that giving up tobacco smoking is an extremely difficult task for some however with the wealth of support available through the scheme itself, friends, family, the NHS and other participants, as well as resources, an app, social media channels and more it is clear to see why Stoptober is successful.    Benefits    Smoking tobacco cigarettes is harmful to your health and the health around you, not to mention the environment and your bank balance. None of these are facts that are disputed however many do still find themselves smoking regardless as they haven't been motivated enough or felt that they had the right level of will-power to quit. Stoptober offers a wealth of support to help you achieve your goal of giving up your tobacco habit and enjoy the many health, wellbeing and financial benefits of quitting smoking. How to Get Involved Getting involved couldn't be easier, simply sign up and await your free information and support pack to arrive (Stoptober packs will be dispatched nearer the time although you may get help giving up smoking throughout the year).        Are you wanting to quit  ?????  What a perfect time to ditch the cancer sticks for good ... Jump on the train for motivation and support , to get you free ...  We have arranged for another carriage ..so plenty of room ...   Looking forward to meeting you ..
    thanks brothers
    The Sisters are here for you too, Juan      Congratulations on EIGHT days of Freedom.   I am so proud of you.  Stay vigilant and reward yourself for every crave/trigger conquered. You are doing great.
    Congratulations Juan on getting past the hardest week of them all. Hopefully now you feel confident enough to fill out your quit date and maybe even get a ticker.   
    Great work Juan ...onwards !!!
Congrats Juan   Remember all the headaches cigarettes will cause    It is a good reason to stay away from cigarettes .      Deal with the rest of the headaches that life gives you .    Edited September 22 by Sunshine59
    thank you brothers and sisters lol
    Keep up the great work, Juan!
    You have a lot of people cheering you on Juan! Keep building that quit  
    Good work Juan.  You've put "hell week" behind you.     Stay relentless and keep moving forward.
    Congratulations! 
My ticker says 30 days at the moment and that reminded me that I quit a few years ago for 30 days. It was a weird quit in that I said to myself at the time that I WOULD start again if I did a month! This was to prove to myself that I could quit whenever I wanted to. This is the smoker's odd reasoning which we're all aware of, truly ridiculous thinking. It didn't work of course, I was back where I started, in the grip of a monster again.    That's the warning. I read on here that Nicodemon does this to some people, a sort of complacency thing and a con trick to make us think we're in control. We're only in control if we NOPE with 100% conviction and don't test ourselves with such nonsense.   The demon is very wily, full of tricks so watch out!
    Great post M... We are addicts ...no such thing as  !!! Just one  !!!!.....
Nope means N.O.P.E.!Edited September 22 by reciprocity
NOPE~Never/Ever/Forever     and our friend, Joel Spitzer,    Edited September 22 by Sazerac
    Great reminder Phil, thank you 
    I'd like to know the site consensus as to what constitutes a quit. Is it giving up setting fire to tobacco or is it a total absence of nicotine however it's delivered.      
    Although I quit cold turkey, I find nothing wrong with using NRT's to keep you from setting fire to tobacco. There's no one way fits all method in stopping imo so if it's with help from NRT's I'm all for it.     The benefit for me in quitting cold turkey was that I didn't have to kick nicotine withdrawal down the road which is what happens with most NRT's.
    I would say that once you put that last cigarette out for good, you can say that you have quit.     The ultimate goal is to be completely nicotine free but if a NRT can help you get to that point, that is great.     I quit cold turkey but it took me a number of attempts.  If a NRT helps you out in the beginning, that is cool...as long as you work towards becoming completely nicotine free in the end.
In my, not so, humble opinion,  the minute you stop delivering Nicotine to your system is what constitutes a quit.      I understand there are many paths to the center but, the real issue here is nicotine addiction. Nicotine Addiction is all that matters in the conversation.     Sure, if NRT's get you to the place where you no longer deliver an addictive substance to your body then, I am all for it.  The point is dealing with Nicotine Addiction.   The rest is inconsequential.        I have seen over the years here,    addictions to NRT's, flagrant abuse of NRT's    and  also initially 'earnest' quitters that will not deal with Nicotine Addiction.  I cannot help them.     My focus is helping people that understand or are willing to understand Nicotine Addiction.     It is all about the NOPE.        Edited September 20 by Sazerac
    I'm not as hard line on this as Sazerac, although I understand her stance and respect it.   In my mind there's the nicotine addiction issue and to get past that clearly you have to stop putting nicotine into your body but, weening completely off nicotine can wait for those who feel they can not quit cold turkey (I was a cold turkey quitter, by the way).     The biggest hurdle to me in quitting is your day to day life habitual smoking routine. Whether you smoke cigs or vape, it's the "garb a smoke" reaction to so many daily life events that is the hardest thing to get past and takes the longest period of time to reconstruct your life. I get the fact that some may want to soften the early quit challenges by continuing to feed nicotine via a properly controlled NRT program. It has clearly worked for some, as has prescription medication such as Zyban and whatever else that's called. I do believe that stopping the flow of nicotine ASAP is also a requirement but just not at the very start of one's quit. What concerns me more than the patch programs are these gums, sprays and lozenges. Those items seems like candy to me. Therefore, more difficult for people to control the dosage plus the temptation to combine any number of NRT's without appropriate medical consultation. Too many want to believe there's a magic bullet out there somewhere that will eliminate the hard work aspect of quitting and that's just not the case.      No question, there are potential issues with NRT's but they have done a lot of quitters a service and continue to do so if used appropriately.       
I'm an NRT quitter coming up on 2 years smoke free and I think I used NRT for 9-12 weeks. I used gum but it was only ever going to be a short term thing, the NRT.  Previously I had a long term quit I threw away that was cold turkey. The thing is I can tell you the time, the date, the day if the week I had my last smoke but I am not sure when my last NRT gum was....I know it was after I joined here...I know it was after another member commented that they were NRT free and I went...oh, I should do that.      Now here's my spin.... Cold turkey is best BUT everyone is different and it's not the best for me ....so for me, right from the get go I was like "I'm a junky, my drug of choice is nicotine...I am addicted, but I am also addicted to the ritual and routine of my smoking, and I am addicted to the psychological aspect (which is the lies you nicotine addiction tells you to get a hit)...knowing myself I knew the first thing I had to deal with was the habit/routine and the psychological...the physical bit would be easy...retraining my self to function as a non smoker not so easy. So I went into the NRT gum thing as... The box says I should be having 1-2 4mg per ever hour...so I'd have 1 and see how long I could go between them...I'm a bit competitive, even with myself...so if I didn't have my first nrt gum until 9:30am then that was my new start time...no NRT before then....i wasn't clock watching for my next hit, I was clock watching to beat my last pb. I would alternate a normal Chewie for an NRT so even now if I feel a bit like I need a smoke and I chew any old NOT NRT gum the crave goes. After the first week I was on the 2mg gums and my whole quit I bought 1 pack of 30 and one pack of 250 and I still had more than half left when I stopped using them.        NRT is fine if you need it...it does prolong the whole crave phase but the two golden rules any NRT user needs to have....go in admitting you are an addict and go in with an exit plan.        Honestly I needed NRT and if I could go back I wouldn't change how I quit.Edited September 21 by notsmokinjo
My opinion ...  I have tried to quit hundreds of times ...if not thousands ...some quits .lasting 30 minutes ...    I've used every thing possible ...every NRT.... hypnosis.... acupuncture....you name it I've done it .. The only way thing that has worked for me is cold turkey and Allen Carr.....    Having said that...I say get yourself to Rome( Freedom)....any way you can ...as long as you stick to the recommended dose ...and use NRT properly ..then go for it ...it's better than dying from Emphysema... What I have discovered..You have to want to quit ..otherwise nothing will work ,it has to be a 100/0 commitment...
I don't know if anyone is into it or even heard of it - but diamond painting is taking tiny stones and sticking them to a canvas to make a picture out of the thousands of tiny stones, it keeps your hands SUPER busy!     I love doing it to keep me distracted from smoking, just a suggestion if you're into that sort of thing     Just Google it if you'd like more info or I would be happy to point you toward my favorite site!    I've done at least 5 and that's before I even quit smoking! I never smoked while doing them.
What a great idea to keep your hands and mind busy. Love it, we want to see pics of your work please Edited September 21 by jillar
    It sounds like bedazzling but on canvas
    It is like bedazzling but smaller!  I will post some pics tomorrow. They're in the room & hubby is asleep I don't want to wake him 
    I snuck in and got one lol - a cow I did months ago. . . and the unicorns I am working on right now. 
Those are awesome! It's like cross stitch or paint by numbers but with stones. Very cool Edited September 21 by jillar
    Welcome to Quit Train Mrsguest! That is a great idea to help distract you from the urge to smoke. Keeping your mind distracted and your hands busy is important! Use every tool in the box when quitting         
    These are great ..never heard of it ...I will check it out ...what a  great way to keep busy and sane ...    
    I started a panda but lost one of the colours so it is not finished .....it's fun to do and certainly fiddly enough to keep your brain and hands free.
Hi everyone. I was quit for over 2 years and relapsed 6 months ago :( but I’ve since been quit again for two weeks today but my symptoms are bad. I never got over my chronic SOB which makes me so mad at myself for starting again. I have horrible anxiety and depression, my legs ache badly, I’m tired and can’t seem to shake it. I have no cravings, I just want this all to go away  any suggestions?
Glad to have you aboard Sos77 and sad about your relapse.  However, you do have 2 weeks into this quit and that is a very good thing.  As to your symptoms you have to fight those and understand they will pass.  What you can do in the meantime is go thru the various educational materials on this site.  I had many of the same problems what helped me most was sleep when I was tired and I drank plenty of cold fluids ( water and also various juices which will help with your blood sugar.  You can use Jillars's Air Cigarette ( a piece of drinking straw cut down to cigarette size), it helps fool the mind and does a pretty decent job.  Walking or some form of exercise helps also.  If you feel some of these symptoms are not manageable you can speak to your doctor but they do pass in time, the first 3-4 weeks can be tough in this way but it is doable.  Again there are many resources on this site that can help.  Others will be along also to give advice!!!
    Welcome SOS, sorry about the relapse. As you may remember that first month is the hardest. Hang in there and I agree with martian to see your Dr if any symptoms are to troublesome, they can maybe put you on a temporary med for your anxiety if it's really bad. I was extremely tired for months but it does get better. Our chemicals in our bodies get all messed up for a while but usually level out in time.   Congratulations on two weeks quit 
    Hello and welcome ...   Sorry you smoked ,when you had a brilliant quit ....    Read all you can here...    Watch all the video,s ....  Stay close .... Well done for taking your seat in the train ..   
Welcome to QuitTrain, SOS.      I'm sorry to hear about your relapse.  2 weeks is a great start back, though.  Smoking really brings nothing positive at all to your life, just negative.  You will be so much better off putting that behind you for good.     Stick close to this site.  Read as much as you can and reach out whenever you need help.  Education and support is what helped me quit for good and you can get both here.
Welcome Sos77. Sorry to hear about your relapse but keep that lesson learned top of mind once you secure this new quit      You should probably speak to a Dr. about the anxiety/depression issue. Are you on any meds for this before your quit? They might need to be altered. Same thing with the aching legs. Unless it's because you have been tensing up those leg muscles since you quit, you mat want to seek a medical opinion on that too. The tiredness is a pretty common early quit issue. Have you had your blood-sugar levels checked since quitting? Sometimes those can dip a bit when you first quit. Drinking fruit juice or sucking on a few hard candies might help. Listen to you body. There a lot of changes going on when you first quit. If you're tired, sleep more etc. Those things won't last all that long.      Make yourself familiar with this site and read all you can. There's some "pinned" threads on the main Quit Smoking Discussion page and some also on the Introductions page. We have a daily NOPE page too where some pledge their Not One Puff Ever each day to set themselves up for that smoke free day - one day at a time.  There's a Joel Spitzer video page as well which covers all topics related to nicotine addiction and quitting - very useful stuff.       Lots to keep you busy and knowledge IS power so .... go fill yer boots with knowledge about nicotine addiction
5 hours ago, Sos77 said:                Hi everyone. I was quit for over 2 years and relapsed 6 months ago :( but I’ve since been quit again for two weeks today but my symptoms are bad. I never got over my chronic SOB which makes me so mad at myself for starting again. I have horrible anxiety and depression, my legs ache badly, I’m tired and can’t seem to shake it. I have no cravings, I just want this all to go away  any suggestions?                   Yes, I have suggestions, since you asked.   My suggestion is to stop smoking,   deal with your nicotine addiction   and learn how to love yourself.     In that order.  We are here with all the support you need, well....online anyway.       Quit smoking, the rest will follow.     Love,   Sazerac
When you choose to quit smoking,    I recommend taking a look at these resources.    Will This Get Better    When You May Really Need    Resources Regarding Mental Health Issues       In my Not So Humble Opinion,    the most important thing about quitting smoking is coming to terms with the addiction.  Once I coped to being an addict, the rest was logical.      Addiction doesn't go away.  It has changed our DNA. This is why NOPE and NTAP  are essential in the maintenance of a successful quit.       Do not doubt yourself, you are capable of maintaining a quit, you deserve a free life, don't you ?                   Edited September 14 by Sazeracfixed links
    Welcome SOS.  I am glad you have decided to quit again. I do get discouraged when I see a quitter that has relapsed.  I look at quitting as a gift of life.     I hope you truly find success this time and look forward to a smoke free life and never look back.  I have depression and anxiety and found it was heightened during my quit.  I discussed it with my physician and she upped my prescription.  I can tell you my anxiety is much better since I quit.  Hang tough and beat those craves.  You can do this again.    
Hey @Sos77! Sorry to hear you relapsed but the main thing is you've quit again! So congratulations on that. I found a lot of help in reading about addictions and how they work, psychologically especially, I had already quit until I started reading about it, properly. I found it really did something great to my brain, I was already ready to quit but it gave me an extra insight into what I was dealing with. Reading about addictions just reinforced that I will never smoke again under any circumstances. There's a lot of material on this site so hope you'll find it helpful. Edited September 14 by greenlight
     
    How are you doing S?    We're thinking of you.
    Hi Sazerac... the depression part has seemed to take hold and I’m trying to stay positive. I’ve started on the medication and although I don’t want to depend on it, I need the help right now. Still no cravings! I never want to have one again. Never. I just want to get back to my self without the sadness. Thank you for checking on me. You have been such a huge support to me. 
    Thanks everyone who responded with all this overwhelming encouragement. I re-read your messages often and it gives me strength to get through this storm. I’m committing to NOPE. Never again. 
People who have stayed away from cigarettes for this long will surely know how to fight it .    I think its mostly the beginner quitters who struggle the most .        I am doing alright after 6 days of no smoking . That is because this is my 7th attempt after many gaps and relapses .       Its not even that hard especially when you know the health related issues and headaches  it causes
13 minutes ago, Sos77 said:             Hi Sazerac... the depression part has seemed to take hold and I’m trying to stay positive. I’ve started on the medication and although I don’t want to depend on it, I need the help right now. Still no cravings! I never want to have one again. Never. I just want to get back to my self without the sadness. Thank you for checking on me. You have been such a huge support to me.                    Hey Sos,    Thank you for checking in !  Please stay close.  We are all here to help you however we can.    We understand the challenges of quitting and to have depression/anxiety in the mix is not a cake walk into town.    Quitting itself can bring on the blues, have a look at  "Quitting Smoking Blues".       Your body is going through quantum changes, S.  Please treat yourself very kindly.  Reward yourself for everything !  This will jump start some endorphins for you. NOPE your way through, breathe intently and purposefully.  Oxygen is the perfect drug.  You are doing GREAT !  You quit smoking !  It will get easier and easier you must believe us.       S
You should be very proud of yourself for powering through and not giving in no matter what is thrown at you.  It's almost 3 weeks now, so some of the toughest days should be behind you.  Just keep moving forward and gain strength from each successful day.   And when things are tough (or not) you can always come here and yell at us, share a laugh, find an empathetic ear, or just distract yourself for a moment or two.
Still loving  my badges! Well I made it though the first 30 days! There have been some cravings. But all in all not to bad. I have the habit I think the most at this point. But I’m finding I like not having cigarettes running the show! I don’t have to worry did I remember my cigarettes and lighter, when am I going to get to a smoking area etc. I feel free when this happens now! And the times I think about smoking are becoming less and less. And thanks again to everyone who has supported me in my quest to become a non smoker! This forum has been  invaluable to me and my success! I may not always post but I’m here everyday reading.
1 month -- great job.  You are seeing many of the benefits now and the great thing is that you will see many more benefits.  Keep strong and celebrate this fist month of being smoke free!!!!!
    Congratulations Diane!  That first month is the toughest.  You are doing great!  
    Congratulations on your First Month of Freedom !    Please reward yourself and continue with rewards for every trigger you conquer. This assists your brain to recognize true rewards and deliver a bump of endorphins for all the right reasons.   I am so glad to hear you are continuing your education about nicotine addiction     this builds a sturdy and successful forever and ever quit.  We are all so glad for you presence here and thank you for all your contributions.   
    Well done ...you smashed that's month ...reward yourself,for all your hard work ..Congrats..
    Good job Diane.
Huge congrats Diane! That 1st month is so important. It's the toughest by far and you've put that in your rear view mirror now! It only gets better from here on in.         Edited August 14 by reciprocity
    Congratulations Diane, you're done with the hardest month of them all!   
    Congratulation.  The first month is a huge feat.  Keep that quit going!
    Wow, you are doing amazingly well for one month down.  Big congratulations, Diane, and I've no doubt your great attitude has cemented this as you final quit.  This calls for a penguin party -- we're just staying in shape for all of your other big celebrations to come.         
    First month is big deal Great job.  Post more. It helps
    Woo-hoo!! Congratulations!!! You've got this and we are all rooting for you!! Just keep swimming~
    Congratulations @Diane R that first month is a son of a ……!!!! You made it through !!!
    Queen b it is. But one day at a time. It’s ok to be slow and steady. Thanks everyone I’m pretty proud of myself. 
    Congrats, Diane R! That first month is the toughest....but you did it! Celebrate and KTQ! 
    Big Congrats getting through that first very hard month. Keep that determination going .
    Congratulations!! First month is a whopper of a challenge!! Glad to have you here , moving right along in your quit! 
https://getyarn.io/yarn-clip/ca48f0d3-bb11-4f08-a852-1c2efe423d33       AWESOME!  Roll that momentum!!!
    Thanks again everyone for all your support and  encouragement it really makes all the difference in the world. Coming here and reading everyone’s stories,  pledging nope every day which I know makes me accountable. Lord knows I need it. And let’s face it,  if you never smoked you just don’t understand. 
Hi everyone sorry I’ve been missing in action. Though the storm didn’t hit south Florida it did a real number on our friends and neighbors in The Bahamas. I have been quite busy helping with the  relief efforts to Grand Bahama. It’s only 60 miles from me. We spend a lot of time their in the summer. Please everyone pray for them and the lost souls. There are going to be thousands that  parish in the storm. I’m still keeping my quit. No smoking even with all the stress of a hurricane. God bless you all. I will be back on when things slow down a little so many things to do at the moment.
Good for you on 2 fronts ..... keeping your quit while stressful life issues happened and for helping out to those poor people on Grand Bahama Island!  We will look forward to hearing more from you when you have more time. Godspeed in the relief efforts you are involved with and yes, we are praying for all those injured and lost to this horrible event.
Good to hear from you Diane, glad your house is safe but I'm sorry about your friends in the Bahamas. That's awesome that you can keep your quit and be there for them. Proof again, that if you want your quit bad enough you will succeed, xoxoEdited September 10 by jillar
    Glad to hear your quit is strong, Diane, and that you were safe during the hurricane.  I feel for all impacted by the storm and I pray for your friends and family impacted by this.        I look forward to hearing more from you when things get settled.  Great job on keeping the quit.
    Congrats Diane 
How are you doing @Sos77?
@reciprocity hi. Thanks for the check in. I’m in a deeper depression today. I called in to work. I’ve already contacted my doctor and started on antidepressants a couple of days ago so I’m hoping that will help. I just want to feel myself again. Hope all is well. Thanks again. 
Sorry to hear that @Sos77, hopefully your Dr will get you feeling better. These first few months can be really hard for those who suffer from depression and anxiety but those people do find that their depression and anxiety actually get better the longer you stay quit. Hopefully you'll find that too.
    Thank you @jillar  waiting for that day!
@reciprocity  commented on taste buds being re-born in another thread of mine so I thought I would start a dedicated one on the subject.        I bought a packet of dried cous cous, rice, lentil etc. concoction from Aldi and have just tried it. Now this just wasn't me, previously, to eat this sort of stuff but I must admit it was very tasty.     I'll always love the bacon and egg side of cuisine but I'm exploring different stuff especially things that will help control weight gain after my quit. It's opening up a new area of interest due to flavours being allowed to express themselves now.    I'm not an extremist about anything in life so I will treat myself to naughty things on occasion but I think I've enough willpower left over to have healthy eating as part of my quit package. Any thoughts, suggestions?
I know of two people, one here, who after quitting discovered hummus.   Easy to make and homemade = easy,better.    You might enjoy Good olive oil,  a fresh herb, a tomato and an excellent loaf of bread.         Go explore your taste buds !        I am so glad you quit.Edited September 16 by Sazerac
    Great stuff Mighty!! I can't give you much in the way of any suggestions of what to try. I haven't made the switch to even trying healthy eating yet. Maybe one day?
    Hi, Mighty One, have a listen/look              Bon Appétit
and another from our friend, Joel Spitzer                Edited September 16 by Sazerac
The girlfriend and I have switched to a vegan diet and -while it takes a lot of planning to eat properly- we're creating dishes and experiencing things we wouldn't otherwise. I've always had a super sniffer/taster anyway (even when I smoked) and it's even better now, so we're really enjoying our meals, rather than just eating the same old crap (literally).      Our change to vegan is mainly for health reason. I'm no meat nazi by any means. It's just what works for us. I feel better now than I have in years!         Edited September 16 by JimHannoonen
    My husband loves tabouli.   I just picked the florets off of a huge batch of parsley.  It only took me an hour and a half.  He hates the store bought kind because of all the stems.  It is such a light refreshing salad.  I used to think it was not worth the work until my granddaughter fell in love with it also.  Now Grandma loves making it!   My husband is Lebanese.  Many of the Mediterranean dishes are very healthy. 
I love hummuse .    I have been hit by a bit of high blood sugar and i changed my diet 3 days ago . No non-veg diet .       nowadays i am mostly eating wheat , fibrous food and vegetables .
    Anybody else on a feta cheese kick right now?  I can't get enough of that stuff.  Made up a big ol' Greek omelette for breakfast this morning.      Doing my part to help the economy of Greece, one block of cheese at a time.
    I was a sausage holic before I quit !!!!.....I'm still a sausage holic ....
    The only thing I've changed is I'm now willing to eat bacon and onion pizzas too instead of pepperoni and pineapple only 
18 hours ago, jillar said:              The only thing I've changed is I'm now willing to eat bacon and onion pizzas too instead of pepperoni and pineapple only        Pineapple has no place on a pizza. Nor do chicken and/or bbq sauce.     Blasphemer!
    Pineapple is the third greatest food given to us by the gods...it goes Vegemite, beetroot, pineapple, mango, bacon then passionfruit.....       There is no burger on earth worth eating that doesn't include beetroot, pineapple, bacon and egg.
On 9/16/2019 at 5:19 PM, jillar said:               The only thing I've changed is I'm now willing to eat bacon and onion pizzas too instead of pepperoni and pineapple only    MUST be real bacon though, not those bacon bits. I don't even know if those are made from bacon. Sure don't taste like it.  I'm good with pineapple on Pizza too. That ingredient is either a love it or hate it one - no middle ground there!
6 hours ago, notsmokinjo said:              Pineapple is the third greatest food given to us by the gods...it goes Vegemite, beetroot, pineapple, mango, bacon then passionfruit.....                                       There is no burger on earth worth eating that doesn't include beetroot, pineapple, bacon and egg.           Not sure about the beets on a hamburger? Never heard of that one. I suppose you could put pretty much anything on a burger and it would taste great
7 hours ago, notsmokinjo said:              There is no burger on earth worth eating that doesn't include beetroot, pineapple, bacon and egg.               Beetroot.  Pineapple.  On a burger?
8 hours ago, notsmokinjo said:              There is no burger on earth worth eating that doesn't include beetroot, pineapple, bacon and egg.               Sounds weird but I'd give it a try. In fact, I will try it the next time I have a burger. Sometimes weird mixtures are a revelation.
16 minutes ago, mightyboosh said:                                   Sounds weird but I'd give it a try. In fact, I will try it the next time I have a burger. Sometimes weird mixtures are a revelation.            With your new and improved palate ..... who knows what's possible
    I like all those things except the veggie mite...but to be honest it sounds to big for me to eat ..my mouth won't stretch that big .......now behave yourselves.!!!!.....
17 minutes ago, Doreensfree said:               I like all those things except the veggie mite.             That's the same as Marmite here. It's great stuff but the secret is to spread it as thinly as possible on toast. Otherwise it's too strong.
6 minutes ago, mightyboosh said:                                    That's the same as Marmite here. It's great stuff but the secret is to spread it as thinly as possible on toast. Otherwise it's too strong.             Pretty sure there's no food product with "mite" in it's name anywhere in North America. Why is that?
17 minutes ago, mightyboosh said:                                   That's the same as Marmite here. It's great stuff but the secret is to spread it as thinly as possible on toast. Otherwise it's too strong.         I like marmite but not that other stuff ....yuk !!!
1 minute ago, Doreensfree said:             I like marmite but not that other stuff ....yuk !!!             Do you mean Vegemite as 'the other stuff'? I thought it was the same as Marmite. Or do you mean the highly controversial, could cause WW3, beetroot, pineapple combo on a burger?
    I thought vegimite on toast was s***t on a shingle
        Do you mean Vegemite as 'the other stuff'? I thought it was the same as Marmite     The same as Marmite ..Oh I think your taste buds are still not there yet !! Although Jo will come here and strongly disagree...lol...
7 minutes ago, Doreensfree said:                The same as Marmite ..Oh I think your taste buds are still not there yet !!                                 Hmm, I'll have to try some Vegemite now.
    Yes .!!!....and report back to me ...
    I eat nothing with the word "Mite" in it!
Marmite is way inferior to Vegemite, it tastes different and gross....only 4-6month old babies and foreigners should ever spread it thin....in our house we eat it from the jar!        Have you not heard of an Aussie Burger? Both Macca's and Hungry Jack's (burger king) have versions on their menus down here...      ^issues with the above...pineapple should be grilled too....onion should be fried...piss orf the bbq sauce and use tomato sauce (ketchups much nicer Aussie cousin). Your welcome!      Oh and any fella who loves his missus and cares about her tastebuds...the rumour about pineapple...it's true! Edited September 18 by notsmokinjoThe black spots on the egg aren't blowie sh1t...that's cracked pepper
    Oh Lord! There IS beets and pineapple on those burgers      Who'd have thunk eh?
5 hours ago, Doreensfree said:              .my mouth won't stretch that big .......                    Dat ain't the word on the street, Big D.  C'mon now !
    Look at the size of that ....burger ....I would gag I tell you .....I only have a small cakeole....
Hello QTrain, What helped you through  your First Week without Nicotine?   For me, it was:   Watching The Clock and seeing 'craves'  lasting a shorter and shorter time.                     Breathing purposefully. Satsumas. Water Saving the daily money for a pack of smokes.  I kept it aside and watched it pile up. Sticks of Cinnamon. Jumping Jacks or Dancing Wildly. House Cleaning. Determination and Desire for Freedom. I 'discovered' Joel Spitzer's  videos. http://www.quittrain.com/topic/2096-joel-spitzers-quit-smoking-video-library/   I had a suspicious (show me) attitude but, was quickly chastened and ultimately enlightened.It was during my First Nicotine Free Week, watching Joel,that I started to educate myself about Addiction.Denial was no longer my modus operandi.I started to face reality.
I just posted this elsewhere, actually seeing smokers really helped my quit like this:When you have to, really watch them smoke. Mentally note how there's a "catch" in their throat and then a cough. Remember, they are inhaling poisons and chemicals (70 of them proven as cancer causing!) with that cig. Also note they do not look blissfully relaxed, they are not smoking cause they are lovin it - they are smoking because they are a nicotine addict and after 20 minutes from putting out the last cigarette, the craves are beginning and get bigger until you remedy it with yet another fix of nicotine, complete with chemicals and poisons.  Ice cold waterA list of all the reasons I didn't want to smokeclicking my fingersPosting all over the boardNOPE shuffle - switched from foot to foot shouting loud or in my head NopeA mantra - "For milly and I"Hard boiled cough sweets (I just like them lol)DancingNobbys chilli peanuts! SOOOOO good, averaged 3 packs a day and then had to wean off them hahaCleaning, specifically mopping was my big crave fixer.Crystals, dalmation jasper necklace and a tumblestone that I would touch if I craved. I needed a lot of distraction :)  So worth it though for what I have today. One other thing, I found I couldn't talk on the phone...every call I would spark up, I just stayed away from the phone like others avoided alcohol. Most triggers I decided to face head on, which worked for me. x
Eating everything and anything, mints, sleeping/really early to bed, singing, treats at the end of each day, It's mad but I can hardly remember,  I wish I had done a journal!!
Sleep... Lots and lots if sleep!  (OK I was sick, but because I was asleep 90% of the time I didn't have much time to crave)... After about a week I downloaded an app which told me how my health would improve, how much money I was saving etc...  Sorry this is much help to most, but starting a quit when you are sick can really work!
Wow I feel great to be able to contribute in this post LOL  :D Water, water, water...in amazing amountsNapsPosting here, reading posts, all about the boardReading and watching youtube videos about nicotine addictionDrawingDeep breathing, baths and relaxations techniquesThe ticker that tells me how well I´m doing One on one conversations
Reading the literature and watching the joel videos.
 :)
    Staying close to the board every chance I got....reading everything I could.....and then some....   Listening to what was being said to me....believing it....  Allen Carr....easy way.....it made me see the addiction,what what it is.....    My punching pillow ..my I pod ..    I have never considered my self as a drug addict...he made me reolize I was.... Serious health issues.....my fate was much more scarier than quitting....
 :)
Accountability
:-)
On 9/24/2014 at 12:25 PM, Sazerac said: Hello QTrain,                   What helped you through  your First Week without Nicotine?                                                          For me, it was:                     Watching The Clock and seeing 'craves'  lasting a shorter and shorter time.                     Breathing purposefully.                 Satsumas. Water                 Saving the daily money for a pack of smokes.  I kept it aside and watched it pile up.                   Sticks of Cinnamon.                 Jumping Jacks or Dancing Wildly.                    House Cleaning.                 Determination and Desire for Freedom.                   I 'discovered' Joel Spitzer's  videos.                  http://www.quittrain.com/topic/2096-joel-spitzers-quit-smoking-video-library/                                       I had a suspicious (show me) attitude but, was quickly chastened and ultimately enlightened.It was during my First Nicotine Free Week, watching Joel,that I started to educate myself about Addiction.Denial was no longer my modus operandi.I started to face reality.                                                                                                                                                                         For Tammy
    Another good read for new riders!!      The first week chocolate and positive self talk.    Also, I read everything I could about my addiction and found out WHY things were happening.
    Marmite crisps have helped me today 
In your first week, especially if you quit cold turkey, eat small meals so that your blood sugar levels do not go low.          When you were a smoker, every time you smoked a cigarette the nicotine caused your liver to release sugar into your blood.      When you stop smoking, your body has to learn how to adjust your blood sugar levels by itself, without nicotine. It takes some time for this to happen.     Because of this, low blood sugar in your first few weeks of your quit can become a physical and mental trigger and create craves.       Avoid these triggers by eating these small meals.           If you do have a strong crave, it is very useful to eat something very sweet immediately like cookies or candy. After 5-10 minutes, your blood sugar levels will go up, and this higher blood sugar level plus just the passing of some time, will help your greatly to manage your crave.      This advice is also very, very useful when a member posts a SOS message on this forum. That is always my first recommendation.              Cristóbal                    Edited October 31, 2018 by Cristóbal
On 10/30/2018 at 8:18 PM, Cristóbal said:               In your first week, especially if you quit cold turkey, eat small meals so that your blood sugar levels do not go low.                                                          When you were a smoker, every time you smoked a cigarette the nicotine caused your liver to release sugar into your blood.                                      When you stop smoking, your body has to learn how to adjust your blood sugar levels by itself, without nicotine. It takes some time for this to happen.                                     Because of this, low blood sugar in your first few weeks of your quit can become a physical and mental trigger and create craves.                                       Avoid these triggers by eating these small meals.                                                           If you do have a strong crave, it is very useful to eat something very sweet immediately like cookies or candy. After 5-10 minutes, your blood sugar levels will go up, and this higher blood sugar level plus just the passing of some time, will help your greatly to manage your crave.                                      This advice is also very, very useful when a member posts a SOS message on this forum. That is always my first recommendation.                                                                              Cristóbal
    Setting a stopwatch when the craving started. It'd usually pass and I'd forget I'd set the stopwatch.   Eating something, sometimes healthy, sometimes sweets.  Posting an SOS or a pre-SOS and writing out my analysis of what I was experiencing and thinking about.  Took my dog for a walk. Started a blog and used that for a private SOS--i.e., not something other QTers would necessarily respond to.   When craving was (is) at it's worst, it was usually at the end of the day. I'd go to bed early to fight the impulse to end the quit.    More than half of the time, I was able to be online at QT during a craving. Without this connection, I would have given up and started smoking again.   Thank you, all.
Icewater. Yelling in pillow. Allowing myself to go through the crave, feel it and then after few minutes push myself to detach from it. Writing and reading everything, in hopes vital information was stored. I think it was  Walking walking walking. Around the house, during lunchbreaks, powerwalks as well as long, tiring km's. For a period of one month I put myself on tomato/cucumber/egg/nuts snacks. To prevent myself from treading one addiction for another. It worked.      Vital for me was (and still is!!) 1. examination of my junkie thinking and 2. finding out what's underneath: something in me is crying for attention. What is it and can I provide it? If not, how do I handle this without smoking <- because that should be your ultimate goal here.  Oh and one of the angels here kept reminding me about forcing myself to look for beauty. Even if the whole world felt like there wouldnt be any beauty, like EVER, and everything was a big pile of stinky messy sadness. Thanks for that.
    Wait. This topic is about the first week. I just described my first months.     Slept all the way through first week. Don't remember much 
Sleep Sleep Sleep, eat, Sleep Sleep Sleep, eat, watch Joel Spitzer Videos, Listen to relaxation and hynosis on youtube, sleep some more, live on here educating yourself, and posting...Sleep Edited February 25 by catlover
The first week I quit was all due to my having a stroke and being in hospital (I was yelling for the NRT patch!!) awaiting a carotid artery stenting procedure...slept when I could, played solitaire when I couldn't, drank water and did a lot of deep breathing! I didn't have any online support at all until about 3 months after I first quit....
5 minutes ago, Rozuki said:             The first week I quit was all due to my having a stroke and being in hospital (I was yelling for the NRT patch!!) awaiting a carotid artery stenting procedure...slept when I could, played solitaire when I couldn't, drank water and did a lot of deep breathing! I didn't have any online support at all until about 3 months after I first quit....             And yet you still found a way to get it done   Finding a way rather than an excuse is the key to success!
    Hope this helps our newbies ..
On 10/30/2018 at 8:18 PM, Cristóbal said:               In your first week, especially if you quit cold turkey, eat small meals so that your blood sugar levels do not go low.                                                          When you were a smoker, every time you smoked a cigarette the nicotine caused your liver to release sugar into your blood.                                      When you stop smoking, your body has to learn how to adjust your blood sugar levels by itself, without nicotine. It takes some time for this to happen.                                     Because of this, low blood sugar in your first few weeks of your quit can become a physical and mental trigger and create craves.                                       Avoid these triggers by eating these small meals.                                                           If you do have a strong crave, it is very useful to eat something very sweet immediately like cookies or candy. After 5-10 minutes, your blood sugar levels will go up, and this higher blood sugar level plus just the passing of some time, will help your greatly to manage your crave.                                      This advice is also very, very useful when a member posts a SOS message on this forum. That is always my first recommendation.                                                                              Cristóbal
Tip: Take the daily NOPE pledge, acknowledge that the crave exists but do not submit to it.Edited August 2 by Ankush
    bump for @Christine and other newbies.  Congratulations on your quit !!!
I've shared mine on this forum before but for those who haven't seen it I quit on an impulse in the middle of the day in June 2012. Something just flipped in my head that day, I hadn't decided I'd quit or thought about it but I was increasingly annoyed at it. I went to the shop, walked out of there, lit up a cigarette as usual and realised it was the last of the pack and I'd have to go buy some more. At this point something just went in my head, I decided there and then I actually hate this and I'm never doing this again. This was 7+ years ago and I've never touched a cigarette again. I remember being really p*ssed off at the cigarettes, but even more so at myself for smoking again/still.       My method of quitting is sudden and extreme, it may not fit everyone. Keen to hear how everyone else has quit. I think the method is irrelevant, people differ on this. It's the fact you quit and stay quit that matters. Edited September 2 by greenlight
I knew I needed to quit so I prepared by quitting smoking in the spots I normally smoked so that when I did quit I wouldn't associate those places with smoking. Mainly my garage. Then on Memorial day weekend 2016 I just decided not to buy anymore cigarettes. I didn't tell anyone until about day three when I told my husband.   Him being a never smoker helped by going with me if I had to go out because I didn't trust myself not to buy cigarettes.Edited September 1 by jillar
2 minutes ago, jillar said:             I knew I needed to quit so I prepared by quitting smoking in the spots I normally smoked so that when I did quit I wouldn't associate those places with smoking. Mainly my garage. Then on Memorial day weekend 2016 I just decided not to buy anymore cigarettes. I didn't tell anyone until about day three when I told my husband.                   Him being a never smoker helped by going with me if I had to go out because I didn't trust myself not to buy cigarettes.                This is awesome!! Love how you just quietly did it. Props to your husband for being a big help
    Cold Turkey on a whim.  The whim quickly turned into a personal challenge to myself.    I thought, 'I'll try this for a year and see what the year brings'      Educating myself about nicotine addiction was the seminal component to my quit. After a few days, I knew I was never going to smoke again.   
        Just now, Sazerac said:             Educating myself about nicotine addiction was the seminal component to my quit.                                 This, this, this! I also quit on a whim and then spent significant time educating myself about addictions. I realised I'm never going to be free from it, I Ill always be an addict. Hence I will never smoke again. 
I had made multiple attempts to quit before and once again failed during the summer of 2014.        I was upset over that and I was going to turn 39 that October.  It occurred to me that 40 was right around the corner.  I had said that I was going to quit when....I graduated college, I turned 25, I turned 30, etc....and here I was still a smoker in my late 30's and I knew I had to quit soon.  If I hadn't already done irreversible damage to my body, it wasn't going to be long.  (I already had a horrible smokers cough, was always tired, depressed, etc.)       Instead of jumping into another quit attempt, I decided to educate myself by looking for resources on the internet.  I stumbled across QSMB (another quit site that no longer exists but many of us are from there), joined, and the support and knowledge I got there helped me quit and stay quit for good.       I think support and knowledge is what helped a lot of us which is why many long term quitters are still here.       So, I quit cold turkey with the help of online support and knowledge (not to mention Allen Carr's book which I would recommend to anyone trying to quit).
3 minutes ago, johnny5 said:                Instead of jumping into another quit attempt, I decided to educate myself by looking for resources on the internet.  I stumbled across QSMB (another quit site that no longer exists but many of us are from there), joined, and the support and knowledge I got there helped me quit and stay quit for good.                                       So, I quit cold turkey with the help of online support and knowledge (not to mention Allen Carr's book which I would recommend to anyone trying to quit).               I'm sure I joined QSMB when I quit and  I'm sure you were there johnny5? I've always thought you seemed familiar from that time.        I actually second Allen Carr's book even though I didn't quit based on that now. I did once quit based on reading his book for nearly a year though (until I got cocky and thought I am no longer addicted)
    I've just put a post up on my Facebook if anyone would like my Allen Carr book, if none of my friends need it I'm sure I'll find someone  
Mentally, I quit on a Sat. about 10:30 AM when I was loading groceries into my car on a cold, damp January day. I was coughing hard and what did I do .... I pulled my cigarette pack out of my coat and lit one up. That initiated another bout of harsh coughing. Probably not the first time that had happened but for some reason, it clicked in my brain ; "You gotta quit this bullsh*t"! Next morning I had my last smoke on waking up at about 8:30 AM. I was convinced I would fail so did not tell anyone I had quit. I kept the mostly full pack of cigs I had - just in case! I have no idea how I made it through those early days. It was pretty overwhelming so I basically just became a nico-zombie! Not knowing what to do or what to think but I did know I just couldn't smoke even one or my battle would be for nothing and it was too disruptive to my entire being to have to ever go back to the place I was on that Saturday. There were a few pinnacles in those first few months where I had to really focus on what I wanted my future life to look like. I guess it was maybe 6 or 7 months in when through whatever circumstance I was in then, I just suddenly knew .... I would never smoke again. Since then, It's been pretty smooth sailing. I still think about smoking at times even though I can't imagine myself as a smoker yet I have enough respect for myself and for the fact I am a nicotine addict for life to ever consider lighting up another smoke for any reason what-so-ever! I know I have to live the rest of my life by the same principal I have done for the past couple of years - NOPE! And, that doesn't bother me in the least
9 minutes ago, reciprocity said:                Mentally, I quit on a Sat. about 10:30 AM when I was loading groceries into my car on a cold, damp January day. I was coughing hard and what did I do .... I pulled my cigarette pack out of my coat and lit one up. That initiated another bout of harsh coughing. Probably not the first time that had happened but for some reason, it clicked in my brain ; "You gotta quit this bullsh*t"! Next morning I had my last smoke on waking up at about 8:30 AM.                 I was convinced I would fail so did not tell anyone I had quit. I kept the mostly full pack of cigs I had - just in case! I have no idea how I made it through those early days. It was pretty overwhelming so I basically just became a nico-zombie! Not knowing what to do or what to think but I did know I just couldn't smoke even one or my battle would be for nothing and it was too disruptive to my entire being to have to ever go back to the place I was on that Saturday. There were a few pinnacles in those first few months where I had to really focus on what I wanted my future life to look like. I guess it was maybe 6 or 7 months in when through whatever circumstance I was in then, I just suddenly knew .... I would never smoke again. Since then, It's been pretty smooth sailing. I still think about smoking at times even though I can't imagine myself as a smoker yet I have enough respect for myself and for the fact I am a nicotine addict for life to ever consider lighting up another smoke for any reason what-so-ever! I know I have to live the rest of my life by the same principal I have done for the past couple of years - NOPE! And, that doesn't bother me in the least        Holy shit, this is inspiring!!!     This is why I wanted to start this thread. To highlight the different journeys people have taken to get to where they are and I hope some of them will inspire someone who is reading this forum and thinking of whether they should quit.
    My daughter was visiting from Australia..I told her about this pain in my ankles and they looked bruised..  Of course I was forced to the doctor's .... Basically told Quit smoking ..like ...now ....or face the consequences......possibly amputation ... There's nothing like pure Fear .to bring on a sticky quit ...   We got home ....my daughter begged me to quit with tears rolling down her cheeks ...    I've never had a cigarette since that morning   I made a promise ...and i kept it ...   Kept my feet too ...    I found a forum ,met the most wonderful lady ,who took me under her wing .... read Allen Card too...    And a promise ...            
Randomly tossed the rest of the pack out the window on the commute home from work ( go ahead - arrest Sarge ... he littered ... ) and haven't looked back since.    Unplanned. Unforseen randomness.    Sarge admits to thinking about it for months prior (due to a bad Doc Visit (High blood pressure, high cholesterol, pre-diabetic - ( all the metabolic and health/lifestyle bullshit we're free to change but rarely do)), but it just sorta ... happened ... completely at random one otherwise un-noteworthy day on the ride home from work.   It's been 8 years.  It'll be a lifetime to go ...   EZPZ
I had known for sometime that I had needed to quit.  Then a long talk with my doctor and then another long talk with her nurse over the phone (all based on test's and symptoms) that I had really needed to quit.  I thought long and hard and realized that the doctor and nurse were being really concerned not just preaching from the normal medical standpoint that smoking is bad for you but really concerned about my health and well being.  I told the nurse I would  think about it and discuss on my appointment in the next couple of weeks.  Well about a week from that appointment I woke up in the morning had a cigarette and saw I only had a couple left --- instead of going to the store I though about the doctor/nurse talks and did not go to the store -- have not smoked since.  Needless to say when the doctor asked a week later about what I needed to quit I told her that I was a week into my quit (ever since that day my doctor and I have  had  a much better relationship and is always on the look out for  medical problems more so now).  That was also the day I found this sight and stuck to it to educate myself on all things to do with quitting and feel that it was a true life saver.  Anyway kind of long statement but it is what it is and I am proud to say  I am a non-smoker -- something I thought I would never be able to say!!!!!Edited September 3 by Martian5
    I think it's the same way for all of us Martian! Different circumstances perhaps but always the same pride of accomplishing something we never thought we could or would. Great feeling eh?
I had my last cig on 2/10/17 while standing outside a friend's truck waiting for him to open door for me....we had just left Urgent Care office and I was told I was in the throes of a stroke, my friend was taking me to hospital. I smoked it halfway and then flung the butt into a snowbank and said "that's it, no more smoking for me!"      Since then I found out that damage had been done to my arteries - the following year I had a triple bypass open heart surgery. I thank god that I quit when I did!!
I quit cold turkey in August 2012. I was standing outside, coughing after every drag because I had yet another cold. I asked myself, "Is this really worth it?" I just started a new job and was in training for 3 weeks, so I decided to focus on that instead of smoking. It certainly wasn't easy, but it has been so rewarding.
38 minutes ago, Leanna said:                I quit cold turkey in August 2012. I was standing outside, coughing after every drag because I had yet another cold. I asked myself, "Is this really worth it?" I just started a new job and was in training for 3 weeks, so I decided to focus on that instead of smoking. It certainly wasn't easy, but it has been so rewarding.         Lovely to see you Leanna xx
    Thanks Doreen! Happy to see you too I really missed you guys. 
1 hour ago, Leanna said:                Thanks Doreen! Happy to see you too I really missed you guys.                   Great to see your NOPE, Leanna.  I missed you.
1 hour ago, Leanna said:                Thanks Doreen! Happy to see you too I really missed you guys.           And shame on me @Leanna! I missed your 7th Quitaversary         I now have you back in my database so this will not happen again next year       A much deserved (but belated) Happy 7th Smoke Free Year!!
    Happy SEVEN years of Freedom @Leanna !  Thank you for lighting the way.
My quit is only a couple of weeks old so some will remember my introductory post but here is a reminder.    I've suffered from poor circulation in my right leg for a few years knowing full well that it was due to smoking. However, my latest test showed a move from 80% efficiently down to 70%. The particular nurse who did the test didn't beat about the bush and said I could eventually lose my leg if I didn't quit. Other medics have told me of the dangers before but she had a manner and piercing gaze that finally made me see sense. I wasn't too keen on her at the time because she was quite brusque and not like the previous ones but I must thank her though as I really needed that kind of approach. A big kick up the ass it was and much appreciated.
    Hey Mighty ...i nearly lost my two feet ...due to the same ...  So glad we both found it here and get to keep our limbs ....we have alot in common .....    Way to .go ...!!!!!
6 hours ago, Sazerac said:                                                      Great to see your NOPE, Leanna.  I missed you.                  5 hours ago, reciprocity said:              And shame on me @Leanna! I missed your 7th Quitaversary                                 I now have you back in my database so this will not happen again next year                      A much deserved (but belated) Happy 7th Smoke Free Year!!                               5 hours ago, Sazerac said:              Happy SEVEN years of Freedom @Leanna !  Thank you for lighting the way.         I've missed you guys too! And thank you so much
5 hours ago, mightyboosh said:              My quit is only a couple of weeks old so some will remember my introductory post but here is a reminder.                    I've suffered from poor circulation in my right leg for a few years knowing full well that it was due to smoking. However, my latest test showed a move from 80% efficiently down to 70%. The particular nurse who did the test didn't beat about the bush and said I could eventually lose my leg if I didn't quit. Other medics have told me of the dangers before but she had a manner and piercing gaze that finally made me see sense. I wasn't too keen on her at the time because she was quite brusque and not like the previous ones but I must thank her though as I really needed that kind of approach. A big kick up the ass it was and much appreciated.          You know what? I would be tempted to by her a thank you card and write a short note to her basically saying what you just said here. I bet she would be over the moon about getting something like that. She'd probably frame it
49 minutes ago, reciprocity said:               I would be tempted to by her a thank you card and write a short note to her basically saying what you just said here.               I have just sent an e-mail thanking her and when I go back in six months I'll take her a gift.
9 hours ago, mightyboosh said:              I wasn't too keen on her at the time because she was quite brusque and not like the previous ones but I must thank her though as I really needed that kind of approach. A big kick up the ass it was and much appreciated.              I felt the same way about my new Dr. He was so mean to me about my health because of smoking. Now I LOVE him! He's so nice lol. It was the kick in the mass I needed too. The "i'll show him" mentality was the push I needed
On 9/9/2019 at 9:39 AM, mightyboosh said:               My quit is only a couple of weeks old so some will remember my introductory post but here is a reminder.                    I've suffered from poor circulation in my right leg for a few years knowing full well that it was due to smoking. However, my latest test showed a move from 80% efficiently down to 70%. The particular nurse who did the test didn't beat about the bush and said I could eventually lose my leg if I didn't quit. Other medics have told me of the dangers before but she had a manner and piercing gaze that finally made me see sense. I wasn't too keen on her at the time because she was quite brusque and not like the previous ones but I must thank her though as I really needed that kind of approach. A big kick up the ass it was and much appreciated.              You might want to make a Pre Respond To Your Own SOS with exactly this, Mighty One.     I know it's not likely you will ever forget the terror of the thought of amputation but, addiction is fierce.
3 hours ago, Sazerac said:              You might want to make a Pre Respond To Your Own SOS with exactly this, Mighty One.                                 Just did. What a great idea and a strange feeling doing it.     I decided to write something new.Edited September 10 by mightyboosh
On 9/9/2019 at 4:37 PM, mightyboosh said:                                   I have just sent an e-mail thanking her and when I go back in six months I'll take her a gift.          Careful now .... you may end up with a problem you didn't expect
On 9/9/2019 at 3:39 PM, mightyboosh said:               My quit is only a couple of weeks old so some will remember my introductory post but here is a reminder.                    I've suffered from poor circulation in my right leg for a few years knowing full well that it was due to smoking. However, my latest test showed a move from 80% efficiently down to 70%. The particular nurse who did the test didn't beat about the bush and said I could eventually lose my leg if I didn't quit. Other medics have told me of the dangers before but she had a manner and piercing gaze that finally made me see sense. I wasn't too keen on her at the time because she was quite brusque and not like the previous ones but I must thank her though as I really needed that kind of approach. A big kick up the ass it was and much appreciated.              Catching up on the posts now. Wow @mightyboosh that is big! How are you doing and feeling now? How is your quit going?
22 hours ago, greenlight said:              How are you doing and feeling now? How is your quit going?              Thanks for asking. I'm doing great with no major craves. I'm not complacent though and never will be because of my first quit in 1997.  There is a walk I do sometimes as part of my work and that is getting easier now. My leg still hurts because it's early days still but I did it today and didn't stop. The last time I did it, I had to stop four times.    I also took my BP at work and it was 116 over 69. I am on pills for it but before I quit, it was still too high even with the medication.   I'm wondering if I will be able to come off them as I improve in fitness. That would be something to tell about on here.
1 hour ago, mightyboosh said:                                   Thanks for asking. I'm doing great with no major craves. I'm not complacent though and never will be because of my first quit in 1997.                  There is a walk I do sometimes as part of my work and that is getting easier now. My leg still hurts because it's early days still but I did it today and didn't stop. The last time I did it, I had to stop four times.                    I also took my BP at work and it was 116 over 69. I am on pills for it but before I quit, it was still too high even with the medication.                   I'm wondering if I will be able to come off them as I improve in fitness. That would be something to tell about on here.                    here is some information about medication adjustments
I smoked for a 5 years and searched for a way to stop smoking.  i recommend the video guide i made to stop smoking. type in youtube"a healthy way to stop smoking"  or here the link        Its a short guide around 8 min and if you follow it  for a month it would be easier for you to stop smoking entirely . getting over your psychologies habits and  substitute physical   smoke craving is important to succeed stopping smoking. Even if you broke up and smoked a cigaret?! don't stop trying give up smoking. The longer you don't stop smoke, the easier it becomes  after a month or two you already feel difference. Best regards.Edited September 16 by dedragonx
    I'm here     
    Linda's here!
    cannot be rid of me easily, try as one might.
    Hello  I am new here  Any advice on how to properly use this site? 
Hi and welcome Travis  Go to the Introductions And About Us page on the main page of this forum. There's a thread pinned new the top called "10 Ways to Effectively Use This Forum to Quit Smoking". That will help or; here's a link:   https://www.quittrain.com/topic/7204-10-ways-to-effectively-use-this-forum-to-help-yourself-quit-smoking/  You can also post something up about yourself by way of an introduction there too  You can also poke around the various pages on your own and read threads that might interest you. You'll find a lot of support and good ideas and knowledge about quitting here from other quitters. Hope to see you around               I'm almost there  - just leaving now. Flying economy (again) Edited September 11 by reciprocity
7 hours ago, Travis Trapani said:               Hello  I am new here  Any advice on how to properly use this site?  Welcome Travis.  I would introduce yourself in the introduction area.  There is lots of information about the addiction of smoking and I would start educating yourself.    We are here to help you succeed in quitting.  We all have been smokers.  Stay close to the forum as you start your journey to quit and take the NOPE pledge (NOT ONE PUFF EVER) every day.  I found that really helped solidify my quit.  There are many games to help keep you mind busy while you learn to fight those craves.
9 hours ago, Travis Trapani said:               Hello  I am new here  Any advice on how to properly use this site?          Welcome, Travis !   Go to the 10 ways... that Reciprocity suggested.    Learn all you can about your addiction....as Linda said.    This site is a wonderful resource.  Commit to NOPE  Not One Puff Ever.      You will LOVE your freedom from nicotine addiction. EVERYBODY does !!!
    Welcome @Travis Trapani, glad to have another quitter on board our train  I found that having a group of people really helped in knowing I wasn't alone in my battle to conquer this addiction. No one knows better what we go through than us Drink lots of water or juice, have sweets on hand, I craved soft peppermint puffs for the whole first year of my quit so you may find you have a craving for sweets. Listen to your body. It knows what it needs to get you to freedom 
I am here still waiting for anyone to show up here              And welcome aboard Travis!!
16 hours ago, Travis Trapani said:              Hello  I am new here  Any advice on how to properly use this site?  Hi and Welcome ...  Read all the green pinned posts on the main discussion board...a great place to start ..
    I'm Here.....
    Yep, Johnny's still here.               Welcome to QuitTrain, @Travis Trapani
 
Present!!
    I'm here...
    Here     
    Here... kinda cranky at the moment, LOL.  It will get better... this too shall pass... hang in there everyone 
    This shall pass.... alot of us felt angry at the start ...just remember all is temporary...
    here.
    I was looking at my ticker with some pride at how many I haven't smoked as well as the cash saved. It got me wondering about how big the totals of all the members on here would be.    It would be a boost to everyone and would give a huge group feel to the wonderful thing we have done together.  Is there a way of doing this without having to count each one?
Posted 17 December 2013 - 07:44 PM  When my son was young he would walk to the end of the drive to wait for the school bus. I would stand at the bay window off the side nook of our home where I could look down the drive and watch until he safely got on board.  Sounding like a good father this may be. But in actuality I found I enjoyed the heat off the glass and watching the life outdoors from the birds to the ever changing leaves of the seasons. Here I would smoke my morning cigarette. It wasn’t long I had moved a small bench near the window so I could sit and be a bit more comfortable And take in a bit more of my surroundings. I bought a nice brass ashtry on a stand to place next to my bench and would bring in my newspaper into the nook ., By the following year I came to realize  It wasn’t much of a bench or that comfortable, So I decided to have some work done to the room and to the window I had a much better built in bench placed into the wall almost making me like a cat sitting on a lagre comfy ledge over looking the world , searching for his pray, like that fat robin I watch in the mornings searching out a nice fat worm.     On day while peering down the drive , watching , waiting for my son to board the bus, I noticed a shadowy figure standing off to his side. I would not say it a ghost or man, just an odd shadowy figure,, quite perplex this left me , almost to the point of quizzy, what was this figure ,, what was it doing out there ?        For the next few mornings to weeks perhaps months I would watch with an unsettling intent ,, always wondering , what was this figure,  a shadow from a limb or tree ?   In the afternoons if I were to walk to the end of the drive never was there any evidence of such a figure, questioning my son , was always the same “ your crazy” he would  Say. But No I was not crazy ,, I saw what I saw and what I saw was a real as you and me.        As the years past , I began to come to terms with the  figure at the end of the drive , I knew well whatever it was meant my son no harm. But still each day I found myself looking out the window.. Years would pass , no longer did my son need a protective eye to watch him get on to the bus. But still each morning I went to the window for my morning coffee , cigarette and newspaper. Always peering down the drive slowly it was becoming obvious the figure had turned its sights to me,, no longer was I the watcher , but now the watchy. And with this the hair on the back of my neck stood up,     Schools years would come and go, Jason would be moving in the fall to attend collage  and I found my self remolding more and more I had moved my study down into nook , moved a side wall expanding the nook itself allowing me more room, I worked from home and really found with these accommodations I was just fine, plus saving me time from going up and down the stairs so much.     At once this shadowy figure a bit of amusement now each day an every growingly obsession, a looming haunt always in the back of my mind. Never was it different from one day to the next , but over the years it was easy to see this was a man in grim black suit complete with over coat and hat.    For years I asked visitors that would stop by , “what they thought of the man at the end of my drive ?” always to be givng the same response “ Still on that kick” so in time I stoped asking , I came to except it was only myself that could see him. But as a say , what I saw , I saw , and he was real. As real as you or I.           By the second year Jason had moved out , my work had slowed down. To save some money on heating and other bills I pretty much moved myself completely into the nook , which now was more like a tiny apt. I had a small bed and fridge a microwave, my coffee pot . Sure I would still make it threw the maze the rest of the down stairs had become to make it into the kitchen if need be. But for the most part I was fine in my cubby.      With less work these days I found myself spending  more on my bench smoking my cigarettes watching my mystery man in black. With the difference being now slowly I could see he was approaching the house. Not each day could I notice, but slowly, ever so slowly he was making his way down the drive.        Until the morning I woke to look out the window and there he stood straight across the drive. I knew then , right then.. Who had come calling ! His eyes were hallow as if none were there at all. His face a slunken gray like dead skin draped across a skelton . No longer was his black suit of fine linen now a grab  more like canvas with a hood from the top of his head dragging past his feet. No more then I peered into his sullun face, he turned abruptly proceeding down the drive. I knew with out a doubt . His next stop was the front door.      Dizzzy, breathless, my knees week ,, I stammered back, the back of my knees hit a recliner I had set up. Into which I fell. Sitting there now lost reality was gone ,, where was I ? what was going on ? what had I done ? I reached for a cigarette to comfort me , to guide me, to give me answers.       And there I sat and smoked . Looking down on to my cracked and dried skin, stained yellow from years of tar and nicotine. I saw all the answers I was looking for.      With my own two hands I molded my own death , from once only a shadowy figure at the end of my drive to a creature from the underworld. I forged my own end, one cigarette at a time. One day after another ,one year after another, all the while knowing death was monitoring my every move. Why did I not stop? I could have quit ,millions do it every day. Why did I not run from this house? was I blind, a fool ? Or  an addict appeasing  myself,  to avoid the discomforts of nicotine withdrawal…     *rasp*rasp*rasp*        The cold steal of his scythe rattles the front glass…    Edited May 19, 2018 by jillar
    bump
    I love this post, thanks for bumping reci
    I never got to "meet" the man who wrote this, he died from cancer.......
    There have been a few, both on QSMB and here on the Q.T., that have influenced others markedly yet passed away from smoking related diseases. Very sad yet inspiring at the same time.      R.I.P. jwg & Queen Greenlover!
    I have had the pleasure of meeting them both ....   What wonderful people they both were ...a massive influence in my early quit ....a great loss..xx
Posted 20 June 2014 - 03:14 AM  No I'm not trying to hypnotise you or play Jedi mind tricks.  I'm talking about relapsers or quitters who continue to have smoking thoughts and desires.        Nobody WANTS to go back to smoking. They quit because they want to quit (for whatever reason). What they want from time to time is to smoke. And what that means is something else. It means all of the things that people "like" about smoking:        A break in the day  Stress relief   Bonding time with buddies   Anxiety relief  Thinking time   Reward for finishing a job      etc     And it also means not having to THINK about not smoking all the time. Gawd I remember that. I remember thinking - "When will it ever end?...I just want to stop thinking about not smoking!" I see people saying it here all the time "I don't want to fight with myself any more! When will it end?!"      But it's not that you want to be a smoker again.        I reckon most smokers don't want to be smokers! If you gave someone a choice between being a smoker (with all the expense and smell and health fears and social shaming etc that goes with it) and being a happy non-smoker - of course they would choose the latter. But most smokers simply don't believe they can be happy without smoking. They believe they LOVE and need their cigarettes too much to live without them.      And when we quit it (generally) takes a lot of retraining for the brain to dismiss all of that addiction thinking and learn that we can actually get all of those good things in other ways without all the bad stuff you get with smoking. Some people are lucky and once they make the decision to quit, they are solid in it. Easy peasy. But lots of people struggle. And that's OK. The struggle is part of the process. Embrace it as part of the process. Look at it as the price of freedom. That's basically how I did it. I wanted freedom most of all. Freedom from smoking addiction and everything that went with it. The price became easier to pay over time. It took less. Every now and then I have a "want" to smoke but it's fleeting and easy to dismiss. Because I KNOW I do not want to be a smoker. No way.      Make a commitment to yourself. A promise. Promise yourself that you will never be a smoker again. And don't worry if you want to smoke from time to time. That's fine, because you know that it's really about something else and you definitely don't want to be a smoker again. No way. Ewgh.
    Thank you @jillar this sums its up for me in the here and now, it's great to see this post.  
    Glad it helped @Sslip  
    Awww, great post.  Thanks for sharing it.  Poprini was very insightful about the quit.  A great resource.  Would love to "chat" with her again.
    Great post...   There is no..one size fits all...   Some take the quick motorway road to Freedom ( ROME )....some take the slower scenic roiute...that's OK...as long as you get there..
    Great post. Sums up my thoughts exactly.
    Thanks. I really dont want to be a smoker. 
    Yep that’s so good to be reminded of. 
    Another great post, this one compliments of poprini 
    Hope everybody gets to bathe in Full Moon light tonight and celebrate your quits.                
    I've just noticed that my tongue is pink again. It looks healthy now.
    I bet your taste buds are thanking you too! No more smokey film build up covering them any longer. Have you noticed any difference in how certain foods taste to you now? It's not unusual to start developing a taste for foods you may previously had overlooked or even stop eating things you used to like as a smoker.
3 hours ago, mightyboosh said:              I've just noticed that my tongue is pink again. It looks healthy now.           Yaaaaa....Brilliant ...that's one of the first thing I noticed too...all that gunk had cleared from my tongue.. You know that thick film we had as smokers... yuk....I remember feeling quite proud of that ... Your taste buds should spring into action now ...and your sense of smell...
    The Blood Flow helps the body in many areas,  clean tongue, rosy cheeks.... check this outSex, Health, Money & Time
    One of the first things I noticed too Phil but only because my tongue was so sore for the first three or four weeks. Guess it was from shedding that thick film and emerging new again. Reciprocity is right too about the food, 
    Saw the same thing myself.   You will be amazed at what happens over the next few weeks and months as you recover from all that nicotine and other junk that you inhaled.  Great job!!!
15 hours ago, reciprocity said:             Have you noticed any difference in how certain foods taste to you now? It's not unusual to start developing a taste for foods you may previously had overlooked or even stop eating things you used to like as a smoker.                Absolutely. The increased sense of taste is outstanding. Even lettuce, cucumber etc. that I would previously have thought quite tasteless, now has a flavour.
    Just wait till you dump a big chunk of that stinky cheese in your mouth 
    I'm not sure if I ever noticed the colour of my tongue after quitting, but I do remember coughing up crap from my lungs for a while afterwards. Kind of gross, but so gratifying at the same time. It is amazing the transformation our bodies go through.   
Some conditions led to the relapse , My 3 year old Kid had a light accident , she fell from the chair and had to put stitch in the back of her head .   I had to smoke after coming from the hospital .     It was one of the worse days of my life .       I want to restart again .
    Sorry about your little one. Hope she is on the mend.       There are no valid reasons or excuses to smoke, you know that, don't you ?  Your quit must come first.  As Cristóbal says,  'You---->Your Quit---->Your Life        Please do more reading.  A lot more reading.    The facts about nicotine addiction must become as familiar as your name.        Once you have a deep understanding about addiction you will know that NOPE is the only way.     NOPE gives you super powers.        When is day one ?  Why wait another minute ?    You need to be there for your child !       We are here when you need.   
Glad to here your little one is ok ...  After smoking 52 years ...I used every reason to smoke ..   You'll be surprised how you cope with life so much better as a non smoker ..    Glad your back ...just jump on ,the best time to quit is now !!
Thanks a lot for the reply .    Yes , Thank god , She is alright now .      I have set my new quit date September 13 2019  , 9/13/2019 .        OK , I am restarting this Quit again .      I will soon put a new ticker too .      I now know a lot about controlling most of these urges and triggers .       Some days are plain dull no matter how hard you try .
    @Doreensfree        I have a question , i cant find a proper answer anywhere .      Does eating nicotine gums increase your sugar levels ?      Last time i did a blood test my sugar levels are a bit high .       I have control that too now
HERE are resources to help you understand.      Why are you poisoning your body for another THREE DAYS ?                     Edited September 10 by Sazerac
2 hours ago, Sunshine59 said:               Some conditions led to the relapse , My 3 year old Kid had a light accident , she fell from the chair and had to put stitch in the back of her head .                   I had to smoke after coming from the hospital .                                     It was one of the worse days of my life .                                       I want to restart again .                                                   The FIRST PLACE to start is to both understand AND acknowledge that the above is a lie.     "I had to smoke".   No.     You did not have to.    You wanted to.  If you can't start there - complete honesty. Drop the excuses. Drop the lies.   If you can't start there you have no hope.  You will never be successful as long as you type and think things like the above drivel.    EZPZ.
20 minutes ago, Sunshine59 said:                @Doreensfree                                        I have a question , i cant find a proper answer anywhere .                                      Does eating nicotine gums increase your sugar levels ?                                      Last time i did a blood test my sugar levels are a bit high .                                       I have control that too now                 Here is an article Diabetic smokers beware - Nicotine raises blood sugar     The Effects of Long Term Nicotine Gum Use   To what extent does nicotine gum increase blood glucose levels?
    Thanks a lot  everyone for the reply .      Yup , i have set my quit date . From that day on wards  i will be clean once again .    I am quitting again right now .     I have a high work load right now .     Everything should be alright within a month .       Time to set up a new ticker .    
    Glad your little girl is ok sunshine. I get the stress of you thinking you need to smoke but in reality its an excuse to smoke. Never smokers don't need to smoke when they're stressed so we need to change our mindset about needed to. Stay close and post BEFORE you cave so we can try to talk some sense into you!
3 hours ago, Sunshine59 said:               Thanks a lot  everyone for the reply .                                      Yup , i have set my quit date . From that day on wards  i will be clean once again .                    I am quitting again right now .                                     I have a high work load right now .                                     Everything should be alright within a month .                                       Time to set up a new ticker .                               Are you gonna be smoking during this time?  Its a setup Sunshine.  Your falling for the okey doke!!!  Then by the time that date comes around.  Its gonna be something else!! You've got to do it now!!!
    I agree. why wait? When did this happen anyway? You have been silent on this forum for some weeks now, although you have been logging in - just not posting.    As others have said in their own words, smoking is a choice YOU made. Not one you were forced to make. As JIllar said, a person who never smoked would not have picked up a cigarette and lit it in your situation. You need to understand that this whole smoking or not smoking thing is completely under your control - no one else can make the choices for you.    You know you can quit because you were quit for quit some number of months before so get back on the train and get it done for good this time.      I'm happy your little girl is OK too. I'm sure it was very frightening as a parent to have gone through what you did.
START NOW   You can Do it. Juan from argenitna trust you. 26 hs clean
    Pots I am very disappointed in your constant relapses.  You have been off and on smoking since I quit over a year ago.   Every time you appear, I truly hope you are serious about quitting,  You make a little headway and then disappear again.   It is time for you to make a choice to smoke or not to smoke.   No more excuses.  Let's get this done.  
    Exactly Linda   Excelent Linda 
    Thanks everyone for the reply . I was a bit busy because of my exam time , my course will be over within a month , so i have a bit of high workload right now .         I also  learned something new today  . The feeling you get after you finish a cigarette is mostly a shitty one .        There is no point in depending on this crap for whatever it is .
Why wait to quit again?     If the feeling you get after finishing a smoke is shitty, you'd think you'd want to not smoke.      Just sayin'...       Edited September 10 by JimHannoonen
    And for the record, three days from now is NOT"as soon as possible".  I'm not sure who you're trying to fool (other than yourself).     As soon as possible would have been the second you put out that stanky butt you smoked.  You're making excuses. We've all done it.      Now either you want to quit or you don't. If you do, you won't smoke again. If you don't, you will. It really is that simple.
    Hey Pots, I'm glad your kid is ok.      Every time I hear a post from someone who relapses and says that they "had to smoke because..." I can't help but think of Cristobal's post that Sazerac shared,  Your Quit and Your Life - The Proper Sequence      A successful quitter realizes that they cannot smoke ever, no matter what life throws at them.  Relapsing and smoking a cigarette is a conscious decision.  No life event made the person light up.  The person decided to light up and relapse on their own.       A successful quitter must never allow a person or event influence them into lighting up again.      In order to successfully quit, you must never take another puff.  Yes, take it one day and one moment at a time but the ups and downs of life (which will always be there) cannot influence your quit.  You must be serious about this and realize the only thing that can make you smoke is yourself.      I agree with the other posters too.  Why wait?  There is no better time than now.  You keep torturing yourself with all of these relapses.      Start back now.  Commit to never taking another puff and reach out to this board anytime you feel tempted.  We all want to see you succeed but you are the one who has to make the commitment.
Thanks for all the replies ,        This is very weird , after months of suppressing and controlling it , all it takes is just one cigarette to again feel dependent on it .    Just one cigarette makes you want to smoke more cigarettes .        I have been stuck behind this computer following a distance education university course for the past 3 years now .  The only good thing is the course will end in one more month .      But this sitting , staring and studying for the past 3 years has made my overall health bad .       OK , Not extending the quit date to 9/13/2019 . Doing it today itself .     9/11/2019 11:32 AM
16 minutes ago, Sunshine59 said:                This is very weird , after months of suppressing and controlling it , all it takes is just one cigarette to again feel dependent on it .                    Just one cigarette makes you want to smoke more cigarettes .            This statement is concerning to me. You have been here for well over a year and have just figured this out now? How many posts about people relapsing have you read here? It's ALWAYS the same story - 1 cigarette, even one puff, awakens your addiction again and makes you crave more cigarettes. It's the reason for NOPE. You know, that thing we pledge to ourselves every day.       Knowledge is power when you;re quitting. Read more of the posts people have made here Pots and research as much other material as you can about nicotine addiction. I really hope you can stay focused this time and that you have learned a valuable lesson about why NOPE is so critical to everyone's quit!
4 hours ago, Sunshine59 said:                                                       This is very weird , after months of suppressing and controlling it , all it takes is just one cigarette to again feel dependent on it .                    Just one cigarette makes you want to smoke more cigarettes .                                                                                That’s why we NOPE everyday.                    Do it every day instead of making excuses to continue smoking.                  Stay focussed.                                      9/11/2019 11:32 AM
Thanks reciprocity and catlover ,       I have this project work to complete which is a lot of stress and i am doing it alone since its a distance education thing .    Otherwise i would stop sitting in front of my computer and have done a lot more outdoor activity .  This is really making me sick .     I feel like eating 2 or 3 gums daily to stop the addictive urges .Please do not discourage me from eating gums .    Its like something that helps me to stay focused on my studies .        The studies is going to end in October , and i am very happy about it too .     By the end of October i will have my Degree .Edited September 11 by Sunshine59
If you need the nicotine gum to maintain your quit until you graduate then I say do it. Quitting is #1 priority. How you do it is up to you but, please have it in your mind that once you get through this stressful time with your degree, slowly get off the gum then.
reciprocity ,   Thanks for the reply .  That is a really good idea .    I will eat 2 or 3 gums daily until this whole education thing is over . After that i am going to get out more and start working out in a gym .  Enough sitting and staring behind a computer .  I want to regain my health back
    Sunshine, there's nothing wrong with using the nicotine gum to stop smoking. Many people have been successful at it. The reason you should have a quit day for the gum too is that the nicotine in them is what keeps you craving. Nicotine is highly addictive and unless you wean yourself off it eventually, you'll risk caving to smoking again.
Thanks jillar , For me nicotine gums are very very effective .  Every time i have a craving or a thought about cigarette i eat a gum and it goes away . When i run out of it for 3 or 4 days , i have that urges back again .   I have no idea why some people tell me to go cold turkey instead of using gums .        I have been hit by a high sugar few days ago , i was very confused .    I don't know if its the gums i eat that caused it .     Anyway for some more time , i am going to eat it .  3 gums a day and i don't even have to think about cigarettes .      Right now i am only concerned about my blood sugar levels .     Going to see a doctor tomorrow .
48hs clean
    Going well. That is all.        Haven't been posting much or using the daily nope pledge. I'm trying not to think about it as much this time. I became a bit too reliant on this place last time, beating myself up for missing nopes and stuff like that.      I'll just keep popping in randomly over the coming months to let you know how I'm getting on. I pop in every now and again to watch videos posted by others aswell. They are most helpful as is reading some of the testimonies on here.
^^^ Whatever gets you through is the right plan for you  Wishing you all the best tocevoD!Edited January 4 by reciprocity
    Reach out if you need help, tocevoD, and good luck on your journey.  A smoke free life is definitely worth fighting for.
    Welcome back tocevoD, all the best on your new journey.
4 days is great, drink lots of water to flush out the system
    Congratulations on your quit !  I am so glad you avail yourself to the plethora of information here,    please continue your education about our addiction and  thanks for keeping us updated.  We worry, you know.
3 runs completed this last week.        A 2 and a half miler on Tuesday and Wednesday and a 6 miler last night (Saturday).      The key for me is to keep exercising. I feel the benefits and it helps with my quit. Entering runs in the local area with the money being saved from not smoking.
48 minutes ago, tocevoD said:               3 runs completed this last week.                                        A 2 and a half miler on Tuesday and Wednesday and a 6 miler last night (Saturday).                                      The key for me is to keep exercising. I feel the benefits and it helps with my quit. Entering runs in the local area with the money being saved from not smoking.                               That's how i succeeded with this quit. "The key for me is to keep exercising" 2 things happened, i got back into great shape and i became an ex smoker. I replaced the cigg with exercise, when that carving came " move a muscle, change a thought"...
    Absolutely made up with how my quit is moving along. Doing dry January, doing plenty of exercise and watching plenty of films and a little reading. All helping. Every time I get a small urge, because that's all they've been so far, I weigh that one little urge in time up against the time smoking has not even entered my mind and I feel empowered.     Onwards and upwards people. 
    You're doing great tocevod, I'm super happy for you 
    Wow, you are doing great.  Keep on running!
    Good work ...T...your doing great !!!!....
    Congratulations on your Two Weeks of freedom !  So happy to see you building a powerful and sturdy quit.
Great job!  I found great joy & relief in small victories. 1 hour to one day to one week. And ten dollars saved to twenty, thirty...thousands!      Find your motivation for KTQ & cling to it as if your life depends on it...
Over a month now and feeling absolutely super. Done a timed 5k today around the local racecourse. Went and had a bit of food straight after then an hour later did another 2 and a half miles. Stuff like this I would never have been able to do if still addicted to the demon nicotine.      I'm starting to look at smokers in a different way aswell. It's a way I've never looked at them in the past when I quit smoking. I used to envy them and hate seeing people smoking because I always wanted to be smoking again. This quit I am now seeing them in a different way. I'm pitying the way they are addicted to nicotine. Pitying the fact they spend so much money. Pitying that they just have to smoke to get the hitnif nicotine. Also looking at vapours in the same way. I see it all now as more an addiction to nicotine than enjoying smoking and that makes this different to me.
    It sounds like you are understanding nicotine addiction, tocevoD.   This is a great tool in your arsenal and a watershed moment.    To pity and have compassion for nicotine addicts is an important transition from being envious about smoking like you are missing something.    All you are missing is a likely painful life and death and slavery to big tobacco.  Now, you are running with renewed life and vitality.   How grand !
    Good stuff tocevod, congratulations! 
    Well done @tocevoD..... Your seeing smoking for what it really is ...this is great !!!
Been a good few months for me. Been running very regularly. My latest competitive run was a 10k which I completed in 58mins 08secs. I am still at an early stage in my running but I can feel the benefits of not smoking which is a great thing for me personally. Hoping that the fitter I get the more time I can shave off. When I go out for a drink I am still struggling with the demon ciggies but when not drinking I don't have any thought or need of smoking. It's a strange situation for me, but one I totally accept. Drinking brings my defences down. I hardly go out for a drink now so that's a bonus.       As I say the benefits I am feeling from not smoking are amazing so I just need to keep on doing what I am doing.
    You are doing awesome tocevoD.   I think the challenge to run has really powered your quit.  You may always have that little nudge to smoke when drinking but now you have the power to control.  It is probably best to avoid those situations in your early stages of being quit.  Keep that quit going and run on!!!!!
    Great to see you're doing well tocevoD, and congratulations on almost four months quit 
4 hours ago, tocevoD said:              Been a good few months for me. Been running very regularly. My latest competitive run was a 10k which I completed in 58mins 08secs. I am still at an early stage in my running but I can feel the benefits of not smoking which is a great thing for me personally. Hoping that the fitter I get the more time I can shave off.             Good job TocevoD.       I'm no expert when it comes to running times, pacing, etc.  I've accepted the fact that I will never be mistaken for a fast runner and just enjoy my time running around in the woods.  That being said, completing a 10k in under an hour looks very respectable to me.        Congratulations on your newfound freedom.
    Well done ...quitting smoking is life changing ...I think we all surprise ourselves !!!!
    Great job -- you have done well on the quit and so glad to see you are reaping the benefits of quitting -- way to go!!!
3 hours ago, Boo said:                                  Good job TocevoD.                                       I'm no expert when it comes to running times, pacing, etc.  I've accepted the fact that I will never be mistaken for a fast runner and just enjoy my time running around in the woods.  That being said, completing a 10k in under an hour looks very respectable to me.                                        Congratulations on your newfound freedom.               I'm same as you mate. I just enjoy the runs but I've always timed and set myself targets. One target was to do a lap of the local park in under 20mins. Been trying for years, it's 2.3miles around. I finally did it the other day. Done the full lap in 19mins 40secs. With these little achievements coming thick and fast it is a great spur to stay quit. My lungs are clearing and times are falling.
35 minutes ago, tocevoD said:               I'm same as you mate. I just enjoy the runs but I've always timed and set myself targets. One target was to do a lap of the local park in under 20mins. Been trying for years, it's 2.3miles around. I finally did it the other day. Done the full lap in 19mins 40secs. With these little achievements coming thick and fast it is a great spur to stay quit. My lungs are clearing and times are falling.                 Good work.  Setting measurable targets is a surefire way to make constant progress.     I only quit timing my runs to protect my ego.       Me: I ran a point-to-point on the Cumberland Trail today, ## miles! Other Runners: What was your time?  Me: The whole concept of time is a mystery.
    Congratulations on your quit, TocevoD as well as getting into running.  I'm glad your quit has allowed you to look into other healthy lifestyle choices as well.
Haven't posted for a while. Just thought I'd drop in and let you all know how I'm doing.        Well where to start? A rollercoaster year for me. Massive achievement's mixed with abject failures. Achievement's being the running, which is still going well albeit after a short hiatus due to niggling little injuries.     Failures being the couple of times I have actually smoked. Single days out being the main culprits, once at an all day music gig and two separate days out on the demon drink. I don't know why I bother drinking it always leads to smoking. There was one longer period of smoking which lasted a week. It started off with a 3 day holiday and when I returned from holiday I finished the rest of the week smoking. That was the beginning of August and that was the last time I smoked.       I seem to get to a point in my quit and then start looking for a reason to smoke. Before the 3 day holiday I had made my mind up I was going to be smoking for the 3 days. The grip had got me that much. Same with the one day music gig, I had decided before it I would be smoking that day.     I feel now like I will never smoke again. I have no feeling for it and no desire. I'm currently loving running and I have taken onboard a lot of the Allen Carr books teachings of the nicotine trap. I totally get what he is saying. I feel like the final hurdle is these urges that come out of nowhere that make me plan when I'm going to smoke. As I say at this moment there is no need or desire. It always comes with alcohol but I have no alcohol days planned. The cure could be to go out and have the day out if I must but to pre plan to leave when the urge comes. Just slope off to save my own sanity. It's more important than being a social, jovial soul.Edited September 11 by tocevoD.
tocevoD, when I quit I was determined to keep enjoying my couple of beers in the evenings. I mean really, if I had to give that up to than I'd be perfect and who wants to be around that lol. Anyway, I stayed close to home for a good month. Only venturing out if my never smoker hubby could accompany me because I didn't trust myself and I made sure to have my couple of beers each evening. Even when I wasn't feeling like a beer. And it worked, drinking is not a factor at all and hasn't been from the start of my quit. Maybe try that this time?   Thanks for checking in, its good to see you  Edited September 11 by jillar
32 minutes ago, tocevoD said:               That was the beginning of August and that was the last time I smoked.                                   Congratulations on quitting smoking, tocevoD !  Change your quit date from 31/12/18 to the date you actually quit smoking.  (so we can plan all your celebrations)      Drinking and smoking can often be real problems in a quit.  I have friends that only smoke when they drink and then go weeks without smoking.   It still means they have a nicotine addiction and it is the addiction we must confront.     For me, I kept away from alcohol for a few weeks and then just went for it. I drank and didn't have any craves that I couldn't/wouldn't defeat. It is a state of mind.  Either you smoke or you don't smoke.        Drinking will not lead you to smoking if you don't smoke,   it will only lead to smoking if you want it to.  If you are sabotaging your quit, you will undoubtedly succeed.         I would ask you to consider why you relapsed.   Alcohol only lightens our inhibitions but, there may be a  chink in your armor that lets addiction through. Your commitment needs to be rock solid w/ no misgivings or doubts and you need to be alert, awake and aware.    Putting Nicotine Addiction to sleep is serious business, a formidable opponent and not to be taken lightly at any time.     Hope Alan Carr can help you understand, he has helped so many.      This vid from our friend, Joel Spitzer, may also give you some clarity.      Edited September 11 by Sazerac
    Glad to hear from you again, sad that you had to start your quit again.  All I can say is that you must commit to quitting smoking at all times.  Like you stated it seems that you pre-planned your smoking days/times -- giving in before the craves.  That type of thinking you need to stop as it comes up or make a  plan to overcome those desires and not to "miss" smoking.  Quitting is not the easiest thing but it is doable -- just come here more often to get some support and education, it really helps.  Anyway glad your at it again--- keep focused and keep strong!!!
49 minutes ago, Sazerac said:               Change your quit date from 31/12/18 to the date you actually quit smoking.                  (so we can plan all your celebrations)              Yes .... please make it easy for me. As smart as I may look (), I'm not a mind reader.  A quit date in your profile makes it a lot easier to post up each celebration you so richly deserve.        If you don't have one or if it doesn't make sense ........
ITV REPORT          Liverpool to stub out smoking at children's football matches    Liverpool will be stubbing out smoking at children's football matches Credit: pa    Smokefree Sidelines Liverpool will see adults who attend Liverpool Youth Football League matches from 2019/20 being asked not to smoke or vape whilst they are watching matches or at training sessions. Over 465 football teams play in the age groups up to under-11s in Liverpool with about 40,000 adults coming to cheer them on throughout the season. In Liverpool, whilst only about 15 per cent of adults smoke, research shows that if children are around adults who smoke they think it is more common than it actually is. Credit: pa  Councillor Paul Brant from Liverpool City Council said "We know that children copy what they see and that a child who grows up around smokers is three times more likely to grow up to be a smoker. Smokefree Sidelines is all about setting a great example for our children and making sure they have a healthy future"
It's been like that in California for years now. Same with bars and restaurants. The newest place they've added is all parks. There's pretty much nowhere that smoking is allowed here. So anyone who is having an extra hard time quitting should move to California lol       PS. That includes vaping!Edited September 8 by jillar
    Been that way for awhile in Ontario. Can't smoke in a whole lot of places here:https://www.ontario.ca/page/where-you-cant-smoke-or-vape-ontario  
Is it really enforced though?   When I was still smoking, I would smoke outside with impunity (unless it was a child centric area, in which case a weird looking stranger hanging around kids and smoking would trigger a different kind of response than OMG someone is smoking)       Anyway though, outside I never was told to put it out, or move, or issued a citation.  that included hotels or businesses that said no smoking in front of building.   Heck, even the employees would stand out there to smoke.         It’s kind of like my high school (early 80s).  Officially there was no smoking on or in school grounds, but the teachers/staff wouldn’t enforce it if you just walked out to the school  parking lot.  You could smoke in the open if you were outside the building.   If they caught you inside though, you might be punished (depending on who caught you) which might just be an unofficial punishment of confiscating your cigarettes and lighter or the full blown after school detention and parental notification.   Although back then, the parents likely knew already and allowed it.
1 hour ago, Wayne045 said:              Is it really enforced though?   When I was still smoking, I would smoke outside with impunity (unless it was a child centric area, in which case a weird looking stranger hanging around kids and smoking would trigger a different kind of response than OMG someone is smoking)                                       Anyway though, outside I never was told to put it out, or move, or issued a citation.  that included hotels or businesses that said no smoking in front of building.   Heck, even the employees would stand out there to smoke.                                         It’s kind of like my high school (early 80s).  Officially there was no smoking on or in school grounds, but the teachers/staff wouldn’t enforce it if you just walked out to the school  parking lot.  You could smoke in the open if you were outside the building.   If they caught you inside though, you might be punished (depending on who caught you) which might just be an unofficial punishment of confiscating your cigarettes and lighter or the full blown after school detention and parental notification.   Although back then, the parents likely knew already and allowed it.         You're right. Local bylaws are rarely enforced as written but, they are there on the books at least so if some authority does get pissed at you, they can have you charged. It is enough to keep most reasonable people in line. I find most smokers are OK with these laws. I know I didn't want to make nonsmokers uncomfortable when I smoked and would go out of my way to avoid smoking in close public spaces.
I received a text asking me to make an appointment to see the doc.  I expected this because I went to have the circulation in my leg tested on the 22/8/19 and it had got worse.    It will be for the doc to persuade me to quit smoking I'm sure so I'm very much looking forward to saying that I quit on the 23rd. I'll be very proud to say that.
    And he'll be super happy for you too. Especially if you show better results now that you're almost a month into your quit 
    The doctor will be very happy that you have made the move already for me.  Similar situation for me when I quit and the doctor was over the moon!!!
    Good luck with your appointment.    These links from our friend, Joel Spitzer,  have to do with peripheral vascular issues.  mad-that-i-cant-smoke-anymore   the-power-of-nicotine-addiction/    heart-and-circulatory-diseases          
    There is also this from Joel,Are Doctors Taught About Nicotine Recovery
    Dr.'s are always delighted to hear that you have quit - that's for sure. Even your dentist will be thrilled as smoking has a huge negative impact on dental issues. Another benefits of quitting .... you get to say loud and clear, I quit smoking, rather than fumbling for words to indicate you know you should quit but haven't started yet  
    So pleased you have quit, what great news for you to tell your doctor.  Congrats on nearly three weeks 
    I agree with all above ...your Doc will be very pleased ..
    I am sure your doctor will be happy that you have quit and it will feel great to tell him the awesome news.     I hope all goes well with your doctor's appointment and keep up the great work!
Glad you're sticking with the quit! I wish my BF would quit for this reason. He complains that from the knees down his circulation is bad and causes either a burning sensation or numbness. He refuses to go to the Dr. saying he'd rather not know. Both his coworker and I have really gotten on his butt about it since he said he would quit after I finished my radiation treatment however 2wks out and it seems he's smoking and drinking more . I wish I could force him but it falls on deaf ears.
13 hours ago, hellkatbaby said:             I wish I could force him but it falls on deaf ears.                 My wife is the same. I don't think it can be forced, they just have to see the light in their own time.
On 9/9/2019 at 11:23 AM, mightyboosh said:              I received a text asking me to make an appointment to see the doc.                  I expected this because I went to have the circulation in my leg tested on the 22/8/19 and it had got worse.                    It will be for the doc to persuade me to quit smoking I'm sure so I'm very much looking forward to saying that I quit on the 23rd. I'll be very proud to say that.
Had a couple guys come to the house today to do some warranty work on our whole house fan and I'll be damned if I've smelled anything more rank. They were both either heavy smokers or had just finished smoking before they came in.      I smell smoke here and there when outdoors and it's gross and all, but I haven't had a smoker in my house before (other than me when I smoked). I just can't get over how bad the funk is. They smelled like walking ash trays.     I don't know how my non-smoking girlfriend put up with me for so long.      /rantEdited September 9 by JimHannoonen
Same with my never smoker hubby Jim! It's so embarrassing to know that we smelled like that for, in my case, 35 years
I can tell when the neighbors across the street (40 yards away) I can barely stand the smell.  To this day I am embarrassed by how I must of smelled to others, especially my grandchildren. Helps me keep perspective on my own quit!!!!
Yup, it is pretty awful that stink! I almost had a huge fight with one of my sisters because I blurted out "You stink!" when she walked into the house from outside at the family Christmas party last year. She is still smoking like a chimney....but is talking about quitting "one of these days"....I hope she does soon before it's too late!Edited September 10 by Rozuki
In 1997 I quit for seven years and then started again. We all know it's like being an alcoholic in that one puff and we're back to square one and my story proves it.   My delusional thinking when I started again went like this. My friends and I went on a mini trip to Poland so I thought that it didn't really count as real smoking because I was abroad and not at home, which would constitute real smoking obviously     Of course, because it wasn't real, I would easily quit again the moment I arrived back in the UK. Oh, when I meant back in the UK I didn't include when back at Manchester airport because that's sort of still half abroad isn't it?   So when I got back home I was full of good intent for a few hours but because it was still the same day as when we were in Poland, I might as well carry on just for the day and stop tomorrow as I was still sort of over there in my mind because I'd left only a few hours previously. I will definitely give up tomorrow, I told myself.    Well, tomorrow took an awful long time to arrive. It arrived on the 22nd August 2019.
I can't imagine quitting for so many years and going back.  Sharing your experience makes me realize I will have to address my quit everyday.  Not One Puff Ever the rest of my life.Edited September 5 by Linda Thomas
    We must always remain cognizant of our addiction    and jump on junkie thoughts Immediately before they manifest.Red Flags  Complacency is idiotic.     So happy you are with us, @mightyboosh !    Your experience lights the way.      
    Thanks for sharing mighty. We are indeed addicts for life. It just becomes very easy to maintain abstinence once our quits are strongly established. the only fly in the ointment is that it is super easy to toss that all away if we ever allow junkie thinking to once again take hold in our brain. Your story illustrates this very clearly Mightyboosh! This can happen to any one of us if we get careless at some future point.     Much easier to maintain than to rebuild - much easier!
18 minutes ago, reciprocity said:               Much easier to maintain than to rebuild - much easier!              38 minutes ago, Sazerac said:               Complacency is idiotic.             I'm glad I have that experience as a warning against complacency.  Also, at least my body had a rest for those seven years.
4 minutes ago, mightyboosh said:                                    I'm glad I have that experience as a warning against complacency.                   I'm glad to have your experience as a warning against complacency, mighty one !
    Thank you for the great Reminder ...once a addict always a addict...we are all one puff away .. Always be in our guard ...  I carnt imagine how I would feel if I lost this quit ...I don't think I would have another one in me ...    It would mean me being in deep trouble ...  Never take that puff ...
    Took a holiday to NYC last week and saw this on the wall of a convenience store. I thought smokes were expensive here in CA.        What's crazy is that there are a LOT of people that smoke there. I can't see how they afford it!         
    Wow, that's expensive!!!
They should have an electronic sign like gas stations so they can be up to the minute when prices change        I think smokers in NYC probably get their smokes from outside the city.Edited September 3 by Wayne045
    I would've paid it back in the day. I would have scrounged and looked between seat cushions for the change !
I can't believe I paid $6.00 a pack. I don't know how anyone could afford the habit at that price.  I am so glad to be spending my money elsewhere!
Go to Australia if you want a real shocker for the cost of a pack of smokes.Then there's Saint Martin, in the Caribbean. Price per Carton!! (10 packs of 20):
48 minutes ago, Sazerac said:               I would've paid it back in the day.                 I would have scrounged and looked between seat cushions for the change !                Same here.      In fact, I didn't really think about the cost of a pack when I was smoking.  I'm typically careful with my money and watch closely what's going out compared to what's coming in.  Not when it came to smoking though.  I had to have my smokes and would pay the going rate regardless.        Addiction controlled every other aspect of my life so it makes sense that it would control my wallet as well.
    That price is insane.....but I would have probably paid it too. The addiction is real.
7 minutes ago, hellkatbaby said:                That price is insane.....but I would have probably paid it too. The addiction is real.          How many of us didn't say at some point; "I'll quit when a pack of smokes costs (fill in the $ number)!" Then we made an excuse to continue when the price got there.
    Before it was a federal law, California enacted fire safe cigarettes as a law first so I sent money to Florida each month for my mom and sis to buy the 'good' ones and send them out to me. Plus they were cheaper there. But once the rest of the state's were forced to follow suit I just bought them here. But boy did I hoard those Florida cigarettes, didn't share them with anyone who would ask to bum one lol
7 minutes ago, jillar said:              But boy did I hoard those Florida cigarettes, didn't share them with anyone who would ask to bum one lol           Big Meanie! Edited September 3 by reciprocity
    I never saved half a cigarette.  If I did not finish one, before my destination, I would just throw it away.  I thought it was so gross when people would snuff the end and save them.      What a waste of money.   It amazes me now, how many times I tried to squeeze one in.   
7 minutes ago, Linda Thomas said:               I never saved half a cigarette.                 I did all the time because I didn't smoke in my house and commercial breaks weren't long enough to smoke a whole one.
    I had snipes stashed everywhere and was too parsimonious to waste dog ends if they were big enough to light again.  I would snip off the burnt end and blow to get the old smoke out...this kept them 'fresher tasting' ?  gah.     Mostly everything was smoked down to the nub.  My poor delicate lungs...what a daily catastrophe for them, for me.      I am astoundingly proud of myself for putting down this addiction.  I am incredibly proud of all of you, also. 
21 hours ago, jillar said:                                  I did all the time because I didn't smoke in my house and commercial breaks weren't long enough to smoke a whole one.               When was this?  Here in the US commercial breaks are getting longer and longer.  I could go out for smoke, hit restroom coming back in and still have 2 mins of commercials to watch.   Pretty bad when an hour long program only has 42 mins of actual showtime
21 minutes ago, Wayne045 said:                                  When was this?  Here in the US commercial breaks are getting longer and longer.  I could go out for smoke, hit restroom coming back in and still have 2 mins of commercials to watch.   Pretty bad when an hour long program only has 42 mins of actual showtime                Guys pee faster than girls? lol I did smoke 100's so maybe because they were longer? But yes, commercial breaks are becoming longer and longer but I do have to say that there are some pretty funny commercials out there that I never knew existed when I smoked lol
18 minutes ago, jillar said:                Guys pee faster than girls? lol             Ummmm ...... Yeah! Cuz we're not doin' this while we're in there
If the price of a pack of cigarettes suddenly doubled, I wonder how many people would quit. But when they creep up, the impact doesn't feel so great. "Hey, it's just another 50 cents."    Or maybe that's just me. Because that's what I would think to myself.
7 minutes ago, Kate18 said:             If the price of a pack of cigarettes suddenly doubled, I wonder how many people would quit. But when they creep up, the impact doesn't feel so great. "Hey, it's just another 50 cents."                    Or maybe that's just me. Because that's what I would think to myself.           Cost means nothing to an addict. That's why people addicted to heroin would spend money on their drug before food. That's why they would steal from their own mother or father to support their addiction. It's the same with nicotine addiction. Cost is only an annoyance - not a barrier.        The money saved since I quit is nice for sure but it is NOT the number one or even number 2 benefit to quitting.
    saw this down the street, I noticed the cigarette butt right off.
    I too would have paid the asking price ...no matter what when I was a smoker ...    And I would have saved half ...even a quarter of I got a puff out of my beloved cig ... Waste not ....  But remember I was ...I mean I am a addict .....and would have done anything for my fix ... Now I choose not to indulge...to the disgusting stinky addiction ..
I posted elsewhere about when I gave up in 1997 and that reminded me of how I managed to do that way back then. It was with the help of Allen Carr's book 'Easy way to stop smoking.' What he convinced me about was that smoking isn't a pleasure, it's just pure addiction overlaid with the fantasy that it is an actual enjoyable thing to do such as eating or drinking a fine wine. This was a big moment when I realised this because smokers convince themselves that it is a bona fide, stand alone pleasure.  I can't remember if this was in the book or I've thought it up but none of us would look at a glue - sniffer on the street and be jealous and think we're missing out on a pleasure. No, we'd see it for what it is, a harmful addiction to a horrible substance. That's what smoking is, nothing else.     People who have never smoked don't envy those that do.
You know what? Ever since I quit I have only looked at people smoking with pity. Knowing they probably would like to quit, or at least have at some point, but there they stand - slaves to their addiction; still! I often wonder how many people looked at me in that light when I was a smoker? You're right though. Smoking is looked at through a different lens. That IS changing now though. You are looked upon as undesirable now if you're a smoker, at least in most circles.Edited September 5 by reciprocity
14 minutes ago, mightyboosh said:               It was with the help of Allen Carr's book 'Easy way to stop smoking.' What he convinced me about was that smoking isn't a pleasure, it's just pure addiction overlaid with the fantasy that it is an actual enjoyable thing to do such as eating or drinking a fine wine. This was a big moment when I realised this because smokers convince themselves that it is a bona fide, stand alone pleasure.              Allen Carr was very instrumental in my quit as well.  It help me focus on how smokers smoke because they are feeding an addiction.  The book made me question if I really enjoyed the act of smoking.  It is possible I did early on but I grew to hate it in my past few years as a smoker.        There is a chapter in that book titled, "The Advantages of Being a Smoker" and it is a blank page.  There are really no positives to smoking at all.  There are a lot of positives to quitting though.      Once I realized that smoking offered nothing positive for me and quitting offered a much better life, it really helped me quit for good.Edited September 5 by johnny5
    I also read this great book...  What  jump out at me was I realized I was a addict ...me a addict ..I just thought I was a lady who deserves a reward for ...well just about anything ...   This was a massive light bulb moment for me ...
I read the book.  It finally clicked. Cigarette to my lips to deliver smoke to my lungs was eerily similar to needle to vein to deliver heroin to blood.  They both fed the demon and gave us that “ahhhhh” relief. Found some YouTube clips of him. Watched over & over.   Extremely instrumental in my quit along with being active on a forum like this.          Edited September 7 by Lust4Life
    I've noticed a very insidious trick that the NM uses. Prior to quitting, the environment seemed full of quit advice such as literature at pharmacies, doctors surgeries etc.    Now that I've quit, the NM seems to have sneaked around and removed a lot of it. Honestly, the day after I quit, my chemist's little health advice table was lacking in the usual stop smoking advice leaflets. Similarly with my doctor's surgery.     To rub it in the NM has got into my sister's mind.  Being an ex nurse she was always banging on about why I should quit but just before I did, I mentioned maybe giving up and she said, "Well, they're your lungs, it's nothing to do with me." I couldn't believe it. The moral of the tale folks is that the demon will never go away, it just adapts and morphs into an even more devilish entity.  I just say, "Get thee behind me Nico Monster, I'm a NOPE guy."
    That is the attitude Mightyboosh.  You just keep Noping and showing that Nico Monster who is in control.  He may never go away but will eventually become a distant memory.  Just keep looking forward to a life of freedom!
    Take control of your thoughts as quickly as possible.   Breathe Deep.   Look at something of beauty.    Reward yourself for every reclaimed receptor !
    The NM has NO power mighty - YOU do. That's why he needs you to act on his behalf. You are right though, he's a sneaky little bastard and will absolutely know when you are at your weakest point before he pounces. Give him the finger    What's really going on is your own brain (which is used to junkie thinking) battling against you because you have stopped supplying what is craves - nicotine. Don't worry though because the more distance you put between you and smoking, the NM will slowly die. It just takes time. It WILL happen though  
    Oh yes the nicomonster will try any and every trick in the book to win you back, especially during this first hard month. When I was having a bad day I knew to either stay close to home or ask my husband to go with me because I didn't trust myself not to give in. Heck I even drank a few extra beers once just so I wouldn't be able to drive to the store lol.  Just keep telling yourself that this too shall pass and when it does its one more trigger you've defeated making the next time much easier. You're doing great and love your ticker 
    Yes the NM lurks behind many corners ready to latch on -- but the more you NOPE and not submit to the NM the less power it has and the more it disappears.  Be strong as you are and be ever vigilant -- you can do this!!!
39 minutes ago, jillar said:                You're doing great and love your ticker     Ummm ..... OK; how'd you get your ticker working?       I'm gonna make a new one too. We'll see if it works or not.
24 minutes ago, reciprocity said:               Ummm ..... OK; how'd you get your ticker working?                                       I'm gonna make a new one too. We'll see if it works or not.             Hope they work for you guys  Edited September 4 by jillar
1 hour ago, mightyboosh said:               I've noticed a very insidious trick that the NM uses. Prior to quitting, the environment seemed full of quit advice such as literature at pharmacies, doctors surgeries etc.                    Now that I've quit, the NM seems to have sneaked around and removed a lot of it. Honestly, the day after I quit, my chemist's little health advice table was lacking in the usual stop smoking advice leaflets. Similarly with my doctor's surgery.                 I experienced a bit of altered perception during the early days of my quit as well.     It seemed like when I was smoking everyone was wagging their finger at me and telling me all the reasons I needed to quit.      Then I quit and it seemed like images promoting smoking and cigarettes became far more prevalent.       It was a matter of heightened perception combined with a bit of imagined martyrdom...The whole planet is working against me man!        With time things began to even out a bit.  I do still notice big tobacco's "product placement" in media.  However, I also see the anti-tobacco campaigns now.  Before, I had become quite adept at building mental blocks when anyone was trying to warn me of the dangers of smoking.
10 hours ago, reciprocity said:             Ummm ..... OK; how'd you get your ticker working?                                   I just did a new one again but I cut and pasted the symbols rather than the banner. I know someone earlier said the opposite worked for them.
    We all know what it feels like but how would you describe it?   For me the biggest factor of a craving is the desire to feel a 'hit' at the back of the throat. That's why I use very strong liquorice tablets and mints and they help. How about you?
    For me it was wanting that first deep inhale of the cigarette, it was a strong desire.  Certain activities that I had tied to smoking would set that crave off.  I used Jillar's Air Cigarette to combat that crave (that and a cold juice) and that really worked!!!
        As a smoker, it was the obsessive thought that I needed a cigarette at that moment.  As a nonsmoker,  it is an obsessive thought that I think I want a cigarette.  That is all it is - a thought.   It is a thought that does not have to be acted on.  It is a thought that no longer controls me.
    A craving for me was the constant thought of having just one to make me feel better. Like martian my Jillar air cigarette worked every time to trick my mind and help me past the craving. That and soft peppermint puffs. Bought them by the bucket that whole first year and oddly enough haven't craved them since lol
I didn't understand this concept of "a craving" in the early days of my quit (almost the entire 1st month) because if I was awake, I was almost overwhelmed with the desire to smoke. It had no beginning and no end. I just didn't think about it as often when I kept myself busy. occupied and distracted. It wasn't until later that I would occasionally get a sudden urge to have a smoke. I mostly couldn't tie those to "triggers" either. It would just come out of nowhere when I was almost anything - sometimes nothing at all. I was never really tempted to smoke due to stress or life situations. I suppose I was able to keep my life and my quit separate like that. What was in my brain in terms of what I thought a cigarette would do for me? Not really sure. I guess that Ahhhhh feeling of pleasure from taking those first couple of drags. Sure am glad I never gave it up though.
    I remember inhaling and feeling that first endorphin hit,  a feeling of happy, satisfying relief !  (sounds like an old cigarette ad, lol)  Now, I get that bump with oxygen.    Oxygen and a short break to notice something of beauty.    Deep breaths are handy.     I certainly remember the headfuck and still, snippets of its oppression pop up every blue moon. Nicotine addiction appropriated a lot of real estate in the brain, happily reclaimable. It's a service, really,  to remind me of NOPE.
    It was constant niggle....a tap on my shoulder ..hey bet you would love a smoke ...that Nico Monster ...    I remember telling it to naff off....I'm a non smoker ....  I've took smoking off the table ..
    At first craves made me angry and frustrated that I hadn’t waited another week/ month to quit. Angry that the rest of the world still got to smoke, then after a few weeks the knowing that even if I did take a puff now, it wouldn’t taste the same, wouldn’t give me the same satisfaction. I mourned those carefree smoke days. So glad I stuck it out and stayed positive. Life is now calm and settled.
34 minutes ago, catlover said:              At first craves made me angry and frustrated that I hadn’t waited another week/ month to quit. Angry that the rest of the world still got to smoke, then after a few weeks the knowing that even if I did take a puff now, it wouldn’t taste the same, wouldn’t give me the same satisfaction. I mourned those carefree smoke days. So glad I stuck it out and stayed positive. Life is now calm and settled.           I bet your Kitties are happy you quit too!
    Yep no stinky fingers...
The physical dependency of addiction played a role in my cravings.  There was also the impulse of instant gratification.        However, a big part of my early cravings was little more than a desire for a return to normalcy.  Normalcy at the time meant just going back to smoking when I was used to smoking.  I was out of my comfort zone for a while and frankly didn't know what to do with myself at times without a cigarette.  I was having to act very deliberately not to light one up.  It was tempting at times to just go on autopilot and smoke like I had for the previous quarter-century.     Funny really...In March 2016, smoking felt so normal I couldn't imagine life without it.  Now, September 2019, and smoking a cigarette would feel as weird to me as lighting my hair on fire.  Never again.
    What did you guys find being the hardest part when you stopped smoking?         Was it the actual physical craving, absolutely need to have one now?    Was it the social aspect? Did smoking become a part of you? Was it the change you would have to make?   Was it because it was just what you were used to?   Something else?     -- For me it was mostly the change and that I was used to it. But mostly change, I'd now suddenly have to cope in situations where I'd smoked before, I thought I'd lost some level of comfort. I remember feeling like it was a proper new day every day in the beginning, as I was basically fighting against the comforts that I knew at the time. Oh how distant all of that now seems. 
    My hardest part probably was the insomnia and the constant thinking about cigarettes
    I had a number of short quits lasting from a few days to a few weeks.       After my first failed quit, I think I had an idea of what to expect early on.  I was usually able to make it through the first few days (when it is said that nicotine leaves the body) but I had trouble remaining focused and vigilant long term.  After a few weeks and starting to feel a bit better, I fell into the old trap of thinking that one cigarette wouldn't hurt (which is a horrible trap to fall into).        I guess what I'm saying is that it was easy for me to quit but it was hard to stay quit.  Remaining focused and accepting that smoking was not an option, regardless of what life threw at me, is what kept me quit long term...it just took effort and a change of mindset.
    It was a challenge to banish my smokey thoughts and break up my patterns.       I hollered, FREE YOUR HEAD.  All The Time.      Then, I purposefully replaced smokey thoughts by looking at something beautiful.    Like, that light on that leaf.  or listened to a favorite piece of music    or spent a moment in a happy memory.    These became my rewards.
    The emptiness of it all. Sooo much more time on my hands and nothing to do but think about how I wanted to have a smoke. I did no planning on getting into some new activity to fill all that extra time I suddenly had. Had I to do this all over again now, I probably would have bought some puzzles to do or joined a gym or something that I could have thrown myself at. The early days were tough ..... no question. Feel your way along a day at a time and remain true to your own self commitment. Those are the thoughts that got me through I think. That and the fact it was so uncomfortable, I never wanted to go through it again! Had I failed that first time, i'm pretty sure I'd still be a smoker now.
4 minutes ago, reciprocity said:                The emptiness of it all. Sooo much more time on my hands and nothing to do but think about how I wanted to have a smoke. I did no planning on getting into some new activity to fill all that extra time I suddenly had. Had I to do this all over again now, I probably would have bought some puzzles to do or joined a gym or something that I could have thrown myself at. The early days were tough ..... no question. Feel your way along a day at a time and remain true to your own self commitment. Those are the thoughts that got me through I think. That and the fact it was so uncomfortable, I never wanted to go through it again! Had I failed that first time, i'm pretty sure I'd still be a smoker now.             I remember thinking I had all this time suddenly. I didn't know what to do with it or with myself or with my hands and I felt so silly for that. I remember wondering what people do in X situations, how do they cope?
    I had smoked the best part of my life ...   I had to adjust to just being me ....without my crutch....I match it ,to  a toddler learning all about life for the first time ..   Everything was new ...  I didn't even know how to be ...just me ....it felt so different ...    Of course if I knew all those years ago ...how wonderful being smoke free would be ....I love the new me     
10 hours ago, greenlight said:              What did you guys find being the hardest part when you stopped smoking?                 Initially, the obsessive thoughts.  I had the ability to focus on other things and temporarily not think about smoking.  However, if I wasn't tuned in completely to something else, the smoking thoughts were always at or near the surface.       The only long-term issues I dealt with, which I would classify more as annoying rather than hard, were: the desire to smoke after finishing a job or task and the inability to fully identify as a non-smoker.  I was several months into my quit before the thoughts of wanting a cigarette upon completion of a job began to cease.  The identity issue was, I suppose, a combination of a lingering addiction and a bit of self-doubt.  Even as I put more milestones behind me, it often felt like I was just taking a break from smoking before I inevitably started smoking again.        In hindsight, the "hard" parts weren't really all that hard.  And considering what I've gotten in return for my efforts, quitting smoking is one of the best bargains of my life.
    The Hardest Part, barre none, is deciding:  "It's Time To Quit ==>  NOW " ...   All the rest is pretty easy.    EZPZ
Trying to get thru all the familiar times that I would smoke  -- The times that I "enjoyed" smoking and getting that type of thinking out of my head, that I really could be a non smoker!!!!       As well as much of what is said thru out this thread!!!Edited September 3 by Martian5
I found this site online while I was searching for the answer to a question.        I quit smoking almost 6-1/2 years ago and have not had one puff of anything since. I despise the smell of cigarette smoke. But WHY do I still smoke in my dreams? At least once a week I have a dream and I'm smoking in it.        After this long, certainly the habits and cravings are long gone so why on Earth do I smoke cigarettes in my dreams? The only "answer" I found online is I'm craving nicotine, which I'm clearly not.       Thank you in advance for any insights.      Jazz
Hi Jazzmine! Welcome to the Train and congrats on over 6 years quit  I'm certainly no expert on dreams, but I would think it probably has nothing to do with you subconsciously wanting to smoke or still craving to smoke but rather some sort of imprint on your brain that was crafted during all the years you smoked and it is somehow summonsed when you dream? That's my best guess anyway but the important thing is that you don't act on it. What you do when you're awake is the critical thing so just keep the quit you have. That's all you really need to do. Feel free to hang around if you like. We're a pretty close group here who all have one thing in that we are all quitters and stick around to try and help others looking to put their nicotine addiction to sleep.
    Dreams are really common in the early days of a quit as the lung's cilia sheds the poisons. This can alert your sense of smell and taste and migrate into your dream.       Do you have some subconscious or conscious ambivalence about your quit ?    Do you still romanticize about smoking ?    Do any of these Red Flags  ring a bell  ?       Nicotine Addiction doesn't go away, we can put it to sleep for a long time  but, it is instantly re-activated after one puff.   That is why we commit to NOPE (Not One Puff EVER)   Vigilance is essential, no matter how long we have quit.        Congratulations on your Six Years of Freedom, @Jazzmine  !  and welcome to the QTrain.  Protect your quit.  S    
interesting question Jazzmine.  I too have dreams where I am smoking to this day -- and I mean I fully experience smoking so much I feel like I have broken my quit upon waking up.  As said above I believe it is imprinted in the brain as are other experiences you have gone thru.  So long as it is not in your daily waking life and you are not really craving I believe that you are good.  And by the way awesome job on the 6 1/2 year quit!!!        By the way not a weird question, I have asked or mentioned here a couple/three times!!!!!!Edited August 21 by Martian5
    Thank you all! I have woken up, upset that I've broken my quit. It's so strange to me! I definitely think I romanticized smoking in the sense that I always felt it calmed me, which is a normal reaction to feeding an addiction. There are still RARE times I think having a drag would be amazing, BUT then I think it would taste like ass and I see other people smoking and it looks and smells disgusting. I also would never disappoint myself by smoking again. Being a quitter is amazing!
    Welcome aboard jazzmine, congrats on that awesome quit you have  I wouldn't worry about it since you don't wake up craving a smoke after you have one of those dreams.  I think that even though over six years quit is a long time, you probably smoked for much longer than that so I would imagine that it could take another six years before those dreams stop, or at least occur less often.  Or maybe getting it off your chest is all that was needed and after today you never have one again 
9 minutes ago, Jazzmine said:               Thank you all! I have woken up, upset that I've broken my quit. It's so strange to me! I definitely think I romanticized smoking in the sense that I always felt it calmed me, which is a normal reaction to feeding an addiction. There are still RARE times I think having a drag would be amazing, BUT then I think it would taste like ass and I see other people smoking and it looks and smells disgusting. I also would never disappoint myself by smoking again. Being a quitter is amazing!            Pretty sure it would taste like crap and you would gag and cough while your head would spin from dizziness. I can't imagine the deflation of suddenly realizing you had blown a 6 year quit  Oh man! Don't ever do that please
    The more information we acquire about nicotine addiction,   the better prepared we are to identify triggers or chinks in our armor. We need to be ferocious and completely truthful with ourselves  to conquer this addiction.  If you know you still harbor some romance, you have the skills to route out those thoughts  well before they lead you astray.   Keep your focus.  This whole quitting smoking business is a continuing journey, for true.
3 hours ago, Jazzmine said:             I quit smoking almost 6-1/2 years ago and have not had one puff of anything since. I despise the smell of cigarette smoke. But WHY do I still smoke in my dreams? At least once a week I have a dream and I'm smoking in it.                Dreams are fascinating and confusing.  A lot of subconscious clutter comes to the surface when we dream.  Many studies have been performed and many smart people have spent time thinking about the subject.  And still, there doesn't seem to be much rhyme or reason as to why we dream the dreams we dream.      Smoking is an addiction that encompassed every facet of our life.  We smoked cigarettes all day.  We smoked through the entire gamut of emotional states.  The cigarette was always there and in turn became a part of our identity.  Then we quit.  The process of quitting forced us to undo years of conditioning.  Quitting smoking brings about a seismic shift in our brains.  I suppose that the dreams could be little more than lingering remnants of the years we spent conditioning our brains to believe in the cigarette and identify as a smoker.     Vivid dreams can produce powerful feelings.  The realization that it was just a dream should provide comfort.  I wouldn't sweat it if I were you.       By the way, congratulations on six-and-a-half years of freedom.
Hello and welcome Jazz...   I have never had one of those smoking dreams that some folk experience....Thankfully... I never dream full stop ...I don't think I go in to a deep sleep enough ... I can only imagine how annoying this must be over 6 years of Quitting...It just shows the power of the mind ..and how smoking was inbeded in our brains and memories... All you can do is keep rejoicing youv,e quit ,and hopefully they will in time disappear......   Congrats by the way on a Quit to be proud of ,for sure ...and it would be nice for you to stick around and support  the folks who follow you ...
    Welcome to the site, Jazzmine and congrats on a fabulous quit.      I had regular smoking dreams for several years after I quit.  I can't remember the last one I had but they can be very scary and it was frustrating that I continued to have them for so long.      Nobody seems to really have a concrete understanding of what dreams mean despite a lot of fascinating studies that have been done over the years regarding them.  Regarding smoking dreams, I think smoking was such a big part of our lives for so long that it can still regularly be a part of our subconscious world long after we've quit.  That's my theory at least.     Those dreams are frustrating but as long as you don't light up in the awake world, you are ok.
I haven't had a single craving or even passing thought of smoking in well over fifteen years, yet I have periodic smoking dreams like the ones you describe.  They're deeply unsettling.  A friend of mine who has advanced training in psychology and whose insights I value suggested to me a few years ago that the dreams probably have nothing to do with my quit proper and instead may be a way for my subconscious to examine/express broader issues like success/failure, the "imposter syndrome," etc.        Christian99 17 1/2+ Years Quit
I don't remember where but I read someone suggesting that smoking dreams may actually be a physical reaction to your body (specifically, your lungs) pushing up and out some of the cigarette waste.  The taste of whatever it is triggers your memory.  You somewhat taste tar so your brain kicks into gear and provides the context (a smoking dream) to explain it.  Because that was the last time you "sensed" whatever it is.        That being said, 6.5 years later seems a bit long for the lungs to still be getting rid of smoke crud.
8 minutes ago, Roark said:              I don't remember where but I read someone suggesting that smoking dreams may actually be a physical reaction to your body (specifically, your lungs) pushing up and out some of the cigarette waste.  The taste of whatever it is triggers your memory.  You somewhat taste tar so your brain kicks into gear and provides the context (a smoking dream) to explain it.  Because that was the last time you "sensed" whatever it is.
On 8/21/2019 at 7:12 PM, Jazzmine said:             But WHY do I still smoke in my dreams? At least once a week I have a dream and I'm smoking in it.                                       Because : Addiction.    Duh ?!? <boggle>    It's kinda the WholeIssue™ with this thing, right?  EZPZ
Sometimes dreams can be a symbolic representation of a concept (like dreaming of being naked).  Would you have any other habit or something in your life that 'could' be represented by the smoking dream?      I'm not a dream expert so don't really know but there may be people who could help interpret the dream.Edited August 30 by d2e8b8
@Jazzmine I get this too from time to time and I quit 7+ years ago. For me this has always been the addiction speaking, it amazes me how strong it is. While my awake brain may not even think about smoking my subconscious mind does. After these dreams I'm always really confused/distraught at the fact that I've smoked and it takes me a good while to realise I've not actually messed this up. Sometimes I'm confused in the dream too. it's the power of addiction. Edited September 1 by greenlight
    I think a dream is just a dream.   I've had smoking dreams, but I also do other stuff in dreams that I have/haven't done in real life.   Like I remember this one dream that I was back working my very first job as a sacker at a grocery store and then suddenly the scene changes to me helping my old high school English teacher fix her car.   The job is a real thing that happened, but hanging out with my high school English teacher, that never happened, and I've never fixed a car before (beyond changing a flat tire).      I just go with the flow.
    I used to think I did not have the willpower to quit smoking.  Every attempt, my thoughts would drift back to needing that cigarette and the excuses of why I could not quit.   Last night, as I lay in bed, I could not get this word out of my mind.  I realized that, over the past year, this word has really changed meaning for me.   I always had the willpower to quit smoking, I just did not know how to do it.  Stumbling across this forum was a life changer for me.   We all have the power to change our lives for the better, but many times we do not feel we have the strength or "will" to do so.  That has a lot to do with our self esteem.  How can we not feel lowly about ourselves, when we are addicted to a behavior that is destroying ourselves.   Know that you can change your life and , in my case, the meaning of this word.  Now that I have quit smoking, I have the willpower to do anything I want.  I have the willpower to stay in control of my life.  What a wonderful feeling.    
    Your transformation has been so encouraging, Linda. This is my favorite part about being here, watching people begin to trust themselves, care about themselves and make even more changes in their life to nurture themselves, to make themselves better humans.       I am so happy you continue to shine your light on us and encourage us all.  Thank you so much.      Quitting smoking is the best thing anyone can do for themselves and their friends and family.   The lessons learned lead to an inner strength and a great compassion also.   
    This is my favorite part about being here, watching people begin to trust themselves, care about themselves and make even more changes in their life to nurture themselves, to make themselves better humans.       I couldn't agree more ..    It's wonderful to watch a newbie travel on their road to Freedom...Growing confidence ,and strength in every aspect of their lives.....
    Smoking affects so many aspects of our lives in a negative manner and we never even think about that as addicts. We use smoking to hide away from so many things in our lives. When we quit, it's sort of the same thing in reverse but all the effects are positive  It's too bad we don't realize this before we quit or even in the early days of our quit. It's only after we've gone through the process that we actually get it!   It's nice to enjoy life again the way it should be 
    I love this post Linda, it so describes the journey we were all honored to watch you take. The one where you discovered your self worth, xoxo 
22 minutes ago, jillar said:                I love this post Linda, it so describes the journey we were all honored to watch you take. The one where you discovered your self worth, xoxo                       Yup! Nicely said J
On 8/31/2019 at 12:48 PM, Linda Thomas said:                We all have the power to change our lives for the better, but many times we do not feel we have the strength or "will" to do so.  That has a lot to do with our self esteem.  How can we not feel lowly about ourselves, when we are addicted to a behavior that is destroying ourselves.               That is one of the most insidious aspects of addiction: it wears you down mentally to a point where you feel defeated and ready to resign yourself to live and die an addict.  A sense of despair and hopelessness goes hand-in-hand with the addiction.        Of course that also leads to one of the most glorious aspects of quitting: the return of autonomy and the confidence that comes with knowing you are strong enough to take control of your life.  You get yourself out of that rut and move forward.  From there, the momentum kicks in.        Strength begets strength.  Confidence begets confidence.            On 8/31/2019 at 12:48 PM, Linda Thomas said:                What a wonderful feeling.               Ain't it the truth!
Best feeling ever!! I am so with you on this. Edited September 1 by greenlight
    I just found this exciting video !  Every time we think new thoughts (like beat a crave ! ) this is the beautiful ballet that happens in our brain.     It was posted on a very good stop smoking site. I like very much how he presents informationThe Path To Nicotine Addiction Recovery, check it out if you will.   
    Fuckers a naughty boy. You must work everday to bring your full potential out. And stay vigilant mkay lads? ok then
    You're never stuck where you're at unless you stop evolving.        I posted this video once before here on the Train.  It's a really simple breakdown of how neuroplasticity works and seems like a nice addendum to the video above.   
    Yeah that video was RIVETING!   Wait til you see the thrilling videos on youtube about paint drying!        People were screaming and passing out like when the Beatles first hit the stage.
    Nice video and concept to think about. Thanks for posting it. 
bump        On 9/8/2018 at 10:34 AM, Sazerac said:              I just found this exciting video !                  Every time we think new thoughts (like beat a crave ! ) this is the beautiful ballet that happens in our brain.                                     It was posted on a very good stop smoking site.                 I like very much how he presents information        The Path To Nicotine Addiction Recovery, check it out if you will.                                      On 9/8/2018 at 6:59 PM, Boo said:               You're never stuck where you're at unless you stop evolving.                                        I posted this video once before here on the Train.  It's a really simple breakdown of how neuroplasticity works and seems like a nice addendum to the video above.
Here is an article I found googling around dealing with the Quitting Smoking Blues.This is from the Very Well Mind website   Depression Related to Quitting SmokingHow to Deal With the Temporary Mood ChangesBy Terry Martin | Reviewed by Sanja Jelic, MDUpdated August 29, 2018   Quitting smoking is difficult enough when you're feeling happy. Unfortunately, it can become further challenging due to depression—a common complaint early on in smoking cessation.Knowing what you may experience as you work to become smoke-free can better prepare you for the journey ahead. If you start to feel depressed after quitting tobacco and your low mood doesn't pass after a few weeks or gets worse, be sure to check in with your doctor for advice.   Physical and Psychological Changes  Nicotine withdrawal is the primary reason for the temporary depression you may experience after quitting smoking. When you use nicotine on a regular basis, your body and brain become dependent on it, as the nicotine bonds with your brain receptors to trigger the release of dopamine, the "feel-good" hormone. Once you stop smoking and are producing less dopamine than your body and mind have become accustomed to, it is normal to react with low moods and depressed feelings.  Lack of nicotine also means losing the "companion" that you thought helped you manage everything from anger to fatigue, which leaves most new ex-smokers feeling empty and adrift for a time. Luckily, for most, the condition is a byproduct of smoking cessation and is temporary.        Some common symptoms of depression that you may experience when you stop smoking include:SleeplessnessSadnessDifficulty concentratingAnxiety or an "empty" feelingFatigueChanges in appetite (eating more or less)Loss of interest in hobbies and activitiesEmotional irritabilityYou may experience one, some, or all of these at one point or another, and to varying degrees.    Coping TechniquesQuitting tobacco is a big change in lifestyle, and you should expect to react, to some degree, both emotionally and physically. You are also at an increased risk of suffering a smoking relapse during periods of depression caused by smoking cessation. It is hard to stay focused and maintain the resolve to not smoke when you're feeling low.   After years of smoking, it is possible that you began to bury your feelings behind a cloud of smoke. Cigarettes are used to deal with everything from anger to sadness to joy, causing smokers to often lean on tobacco to avoid difficult emotions. It is healthy and productive to let those feelings out, even if you feel a little raw from the experience.     For depression that comes with smoking cessation, try some of the following ideas to improve your mood:     Get out of a quick walk. Fresh air is always invigorating, and exercise releases endorphins in the brain, which are known to improve mood.  Set goals, but don't bite off more than you can chew. Divide tasks related to your goals into small chunks that you feel good about accomplishing.  Spend time with people who make you feel good.      When negative/sad thoughts come up about smoking, remind yourself that you miss smoking mostly because it was an addiction, and once you're healed, you won't feel this way.    Create a list of things you can do at a moment's notice when you're feeling the urge to smoke, like do a crossword puzzle or call a supportive friend.      Jolting ourselves out of a negative thought pattern is often as simple as changing what we're doing.    Join a support group. Meeting people who are going through the same struggle as you can help you know you're not alone and offer some much-needed support. The American Lung Association's Freedom From Smoking program has groups all over the country, or do some research to find other support programs in your local area.     While quitting smoking, the body and mind are in a state of transition, and it's not uncommon for new ex-smokers to struggle with their emotions. Don't worry if you are close to tears one moment and angry or sad the next. The balance will return in time.  Change Your Mind, Change Your Life  One of the greatest challenges new ex-smokers face is an important change in perspective. It is that shift in thinking from seeing smoking cessation as an exercise in deprivation to realizing that it is, in fact, one of the best gifts you'll ever give yourself.This is a crucial step in the process of healing from nicotine addiction, and it is with this transformation that many see their quit-related symptoms of depression begin to lift.    Pre-Existing DepressionIf you have been diagnosed and/or treated for depression prior to quitting smoking, it is important to let your doctor know ahead of time that you're planning to quit. Smoking cessation could make you susceptible to additional mood disturbances.    Smoking also causes some medications to be metabolized more quickly, so when you quit, prescriptions you're already taking might need to be adjusted. Your doctor can monitor and correct dosages on any medications you might be on, if necessary.     Always be on alert for drastic mood changes and contact your doctor as soon as possible if anything out of the ordinary occurs. If you're having thoughts of self-harm, contact the National Suicide Prevention Lifelineat 800-273-8255.    A Word From VerywellIf the blues have come on since you quit smoking, remember that this is not uncommon. As you are patient through this likely temporary phase, find comfort from your friends, family, and keeping busy with healthier, more productive activities.With time and dedication, these will become the more familiar sources of good feelings, and smoking will become that thing that you thought used to bring you benefit.    You can also take comfort in knowing that millions of people have been through this process successfully before you, and many include it among the most rewarding experiences of their lives.Happier days are ahead, and with them will come a tremendous sense of pride and empowerment from overcoming this addiction.    Article Sources:National Institutes of Mental Health. Depression. https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/depression/index.shtml .Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Recognize Signs of Depression. https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/campaign/tips/quit-smoking/guide/depression-and-smoking.html
1 hour ago, Sazerac said:   After years of smoking, it is possible that you began to bury your feelings behind a cloud of smoke. Cigarettes are used to deal with everything from anger to sadness to joy, causing smokers to often lean on tobacco to avoid difficult emotions.    Boy is that ever me.  Great article.
Myself and many, many others hid emotions behind the veil of smoke.     It is eye opening to have emotions surface and use the opportunity to get very current and  honest with ourselves.  I feel this is one of the many gifts that comes with quitting smoking.               Edited August 30, 2018 by Sazerac
    When i quit smoking i lost what i thought was my best friend. When i would over think i would smoke, on the phone or watching a movie or a sporting event . When i would get angry and when i would wake up, with my coffee and after eating! The biggest time for me was when i was driving that long ride. Some days i would do nothing but i was ok if i had my pack of smokes. So this article sums it up perfectly. PS all i did was replace the cigg with a new best friend one that wouldn't be as toxic or try and kill me... Exercise and a plastic straw(after i got tired of the candy -mostly lollipops)
    So the emotional side of quitting caught me a little off guard. A lot of the things I thought I had dealt with re-surfaced and there was a lot of stuff rearing its ugly head. Still got a ways to go to resolve a lot of it but I think in many was I am emotionally healthier now.
    Great article on what to possibly expect. Not everyone goes through this but most will in varying degrees. I did but it goes away....time heals. Just winning at quitting is a real “upper!” Totally worth it! 
    I compare quitting to emerging from a cocoon. We are enveloped in something, not very pretty, and afterwards we emerge, new, different. This concerns both body and mind. The first weeks after quitting were a chance to observe anxiety and depression as physical, not mental experiences. That was intense but also very helpful on the further road.
Nice article, I read it some months ago when I was preparing. For me, it's about finding balance. I have to stay alert for drastic mood changes on one side,  cause I know very well where they can get me. On the other hand, I try to realise that this proces takes time and also that to blame quitting for every bad mood/state just isn't right. Regardless of quitting, life continues. And life just happens to give me ups and downs and they might have been far worse if I would have been smoking.      I am also starting to realise the importance of the 'it's always there for me' factor.  Obviously I've learn to grow comfort in the idea of cigarettes being 'here for me'.   Though it's only two weeks, I am already a bit embarrased to look at it that way. So many things are here for me... not many of them 'always' and that's ofcourse where the temptation comes in, the temptation to look at cigarettes as if they were comfy, warm, friendly, non-judgemental and above all, ever available. etc. My friends, partner and family are here for me, but not always. So I will have to learn to ask for support in different ways. And even then, if they somehow are uncapable of being there at that moment, I'll have to learn that me reaching out means taking care of myself. My house is here for me, but it doesn't have arms and legs to clean itself, so I'll have to be more concious these days about making it a place where I feel at home and where I feel loved. Literally, the floor is here for me, the earth is there to carry me. Etc.        How I used to hate to be 'thankful on purpose', as a way of therapeutic brainwashing, ha. But more and more I start seeing the beauty in it, even when I don't feel like it yet. Fake it until you make it. Because I do have a lot to be thankful for and when the junky thoughts creep upon me, I want to be able to feel that, to use that so I can disarm the addiction and leave it for what it is: an irreversible, sleeping brainthing that, when left alone, is harmless, faceless and has no identity. Unlike myself!   Edited September 5, 2018 by My life, my recovery
    Love your post, My Life. Your mindset is great. 
    Thats the spirit. Keep pushing forward!
On 8/30/2018 at 10:37 AM, Sazerac said: Here is an article I found googling around dealing with the Quitting Smoking Blues.This is from the Very Well Mind website                  Depression Related to Quitting SmokingHow to Deal With the Temporary Mood ChangesBy Terry Martin | Reviewed by Sanja Jelic, MDUpdated August 29, 2018                   Quitting smoking is difficult enough when you're feeling happy. Unfortunately, it can become further challenging due to depression—a common complaint early on in smoking cessation.Knowing what you may experience as you work to become smoke-free can better prepare you for the journey ahead. If you start to feel depressed after quitting tobacco and your low mood doesn't pass after a few weeks or gets worse, be sure to check in with your doctor for advice.                   Physical and Psychological Changes                  Nicotine withdrawal is the primary reason for the temporary depression you may experience after quitting smoking. When you use nicotine on a regular basis, your body and brain become dependent on it, as the nicotine bonds with your brain receptors to trigger the release of dopamine, the "feel-good" hormone. Once you stop smoking and are producing less dopamine than your body and mind have become accustomed to, it is normal to react with low moods and depressed feelings.                  Lack of nicotine also means losing the "companion" that you thought helped you manage everything from anger to fatigue, which leaves most new ex-smokers feeling empty and adrift for a time. Luckily, for most, the condition is a byproduct of smoking cessation and is temporary.                                        Some common symptoms of depression that you may experience when you stop smoking include:SleeplessnessSadnessDifficulty concentratingAnxiety or an "empty" feelingFatigueChanges in appetite (eating more or less)Loss of interest in hobbies and activitiesEmotional irritabilityYou may experience one, some, or all of these at one point or another, and to varying degrees.                    Coping TechniquesQuitting tobacco is a big change in lifestyle, and you should expect to react, to some degree, both emotionally and physically. You are also at an increased risk of suffering a smoking relapse during periods of depression caused by smoking cessation. It is hard to stay focused and maintain the resolve to not smoke when you're feeling low.                   After years of smoking, it is possible that you began to bury your feelings behind a cloud of smoke. Cigarettes are used to deal with everything from anger to sadness to joy, causing smokers to often lean on tobacco to avoid difficult emotions. It is healthy and productive to let those feelings out, even if you feel a little raw from the experience.                 For depression that comes with smoking cessation, try some of the following ideas to improve your mood:                 Get out of a quick walk. Fresh air is always invigorating, and exercise releases endorphins in the brain, which are known to improve mood.                  Set goals, but don't bite off more than you can chew. Divide tasks related to your goals into small chunks that you feel good about accomplishing.                  Spend time with people who make you feel good.                  When negative/sad thoughts come up about smoking, remind yourself that you miss smoking mostly because it was an addiction, and once you're healed, you won't feel this way.                    Create a list of things you can do at a moment's notice when you're feeling the urge to smoke, like do a crossword puzzle or call a supportive friend.                  Jolting ourselves out of a negative thought pattern is often as simple as changing what we're doing.                    Join a support group. Meeting people who are going through the same struggle as you can help you know you're not alone and offer some much-needed support. The American Lung Association's Freedom From Smoking program has groups all over the country, or do some research to find other support programs in your local area.                 While quitting smoking, the body and mind are in a state of transition, and it's not uncommon for new ex-smokers to struggle with their emotions. Don't worry if you are close to tears one moment and angry or sad the next. The balance will return in time.                  Change Your Mind, Change Your Life                  One of the greatest challenges new ex-smokers face is an important change in perspective. It is that shift in thinking from seeing smoking cessation as an exercise in deprivation to realizing that it is, in fact, one of the best gifts you'll ever give yourself.This is a crucial step in the process of healing from nicotine addiction, and it is with this transformation that many see their quit-related symptoms of depression begin to lift.                    Pre-Existing DepressionIf you have been diagnosed and/or treated for depression prior to quitting smoking, it is important to let your doctor know ahead of time that you're planning to quit. Smoking cessation could make you susceptible to additional mood disturbances.                    Smoking also causes some medications to be metabolized more quickly, so when you quit, prescriptions you're already taking might need to be adjusted. Your doctor can monitor and correct dosages on any medications you might be on, if necessary.                 Always be on alert for drastic mood changes and contact your doctor as soon as possible if anything out of the ordinary occurs. If you're having thoughts of self-harm, contact the National Suicide Prevention Lifelineat 800-273-8255.                    A Word From VerywellIf the blues have come on since you quit smoking, remember that this is not uncommon. As you are patient through this likely temporary phase, find comfort from your friends, family, and keeping busy with healthier, more productive activities.With time and dedication, these will become the more familiar sources of good feelings, and smoking will become that thing that you thought used to bring you benefit.                    You can also take comfort in knowing that millions of people have been through this process successfully before you, and many include it among the most rewarding experiences of their lives.Happier days are ahead, and with them will come a tremendous sense of pride and empowerment from overcoming this addiction.                    Article Sources:National Institutes of Mental Health. Depression. https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/depression/index.shtml .Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Recognize Signs of Depression. https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/campaign/tips/quit-smoking/guide/depression-and-smoking.html                                             Well darling nicotine free creatures,Since January is almost over, February approaching and the Sun is thin,many feel dark as well, some have SAD, some ARE sad.Turn on your sun lamps, find the sun and expose your face and hands, take your Vit D3 and B's and C's.  Hang in there, the Light is coming back.
    bump for @FUNKYFUNJO
    bump for @Ikea
This is very true.      A few days ago I thought about my dog that passed over 2 years ago.  I reached for my pack of cigarettes before I even realized I had done it.  They weren't there.     I ended up having to pull my truck over to the side of the road.  I cried for half an hour.     The cigarettes helped me suppress the loss.  Is that a good thing?  I don't know.  Maybe.  The loss of that sweet dog (at 19 - she was tough) almost killed me at the time and I had a hard time holding it together.  But since then I have clearly been hiding from it.  That's why my hand reached out for that pack that wasn't there.      I've also been dragging around a craving for days since then.  And I also think a lot of the depression I have been feeling since quitting isn't about "my friend, the missing cigarettes" but about all of the issues I've repressed in the 20 years I was smoking.        Guess I'll get to cry on the side of the road more.  Joy.       Better than smoking.
@Roark, the emotions you're feeling are completely normal for where you are in your quit. Some of us get angry and others get sad. And yes, it is much better than smoking! You are doing great and just keep reminding yourself that this too shall pass and once it does you'll see just how worth it all this misery was 
1 hour ago, Roark said:             The loss of that sweet dog (at 19 - she was tough)          Wow 19 years is a long life for a dog.  Roark, you do reach a point where you can grieve without reaching for those cigarettes.
    Hey Roark! We all used smoking to hide from real life issues in some manner or other.   Don't be sad for your past; be happy for your future because now you're quitting and that's something you can control!  
    I find I can deal with life challenges better now I don't smoke ,I don't have the nicotine withdrawal to cope with on top of everything else ...it does get easier R ...I've just lost my lifelong partner....  And never once thought a smoke would make it better ...it never even entered my mind ...    When i was a smoker ..the least tiny problem i would smoke more ...smoking gets us all wound up ... Take some really good deep breaths ...take in that lovely fresh air ...
10 hours ago, Roark said:               I've also been dragging around a craving for days since then.               This is a huge red flag.  This trigger, if not stomped out, can lead you NOWHERE.   Do not let smokey thoughts get any kind of traction in your brain, Roark.   Flush them out and replace them with thoughts of kindness, thoughts of beauty, re-visit a treasured memory  or, 'move a muscle, change a thought'.  These thoughts are junkie thoughts and all about addiction...nothing about YOU.     Your emotions will settle down and you will learn how to care for yourself, how to trust yourself, how to listen to yourself.   Please treat yourself with extra kindness through this time where you may feel very exposed and vulnerable. Bank up the fires of your inner strength and power.  Protect your quit.  You are winning.       You may find this post about Red Flags helpful.
    Thank you for the article @Sazerac       
6 minutes ago, Roark said:              Thank you for the article @Sazerac                                                  I am so glad you found it useful, Roark.    The more you communicate your concerns and experience the easier it is to send things that might help your way. You will also resonate with many, we have our personal quits but, we often are in solidarity over concerns and anxieties involved in all of our quits.      Congratulations on your quit.  Protect it and be really kind to yourself.
On 8/30/2019 at 9:26 PM, Linda Thomas said:             Wow 19 years is a long life for a dog.  Roark, you do reach a point where you can grieve without reaching for those cigarettes.                                  @Linda Thomas - She was a good girl.  She deserves honest grieving and I'm working that way.Edited September 1 by Roark
    Came across this in the Washington Post.   Apparently vaping has been linked to a lung illness      See article here:  Mystery lung illness linked to vaping         
    I just saw a news article about that on tv. I'm sure there's a lot more yet to be seen illnesses coming from vaping 
    Seen an article from USA Today on this yesterday.  More reports from more than a couple of states coming in on this so now we hopefully get some more action on this.  Is kind of strange that impacts seen are mostly on younger people at this point but at least should create more research!!!!
    Thank you for posting this Wayne ,as I'm in the UK...   I think further down the line ..they will  see just how much damage is done ..  Just as they did with cigarettes....
1 hour ago, Martian5 said:              Seen an article from USA Today on this yesterday.  More reports from more than a couple of states coming in on this so now we hopefully get some more action on this.  Is kind of strange that impacts seen are mostly on younger people at this point but at least should create more research!!!!             I think it’s mostly younger people getting sick because they are the ones vaping.  It seems the cool thing to do now.   Old timers will stick with cigarettes because that was the cool thing to do when they were young
New article on vaping illness and the numbers are up.  This I truly hope helps towards more research and regulation.  And yes Wayne I agree that numbers could be related to more young people vape.     https://www.cnn.com/2019/08/17/health/vaping-lung-disease-states/index.html                     Edited August 18 by Martian5
    This has been all over our news as well - my son is a vaper and I've been really hard on him about it! I might not be able to play hypocrite with others but I'm no holds bar when it comes to him regarding smoking/vaping. He will get a straight throat punch (out of love) if I see him with one of those darn things in his mouth much less a cigarette. And sadly I see more and more vape shops opening everywhere .      
    Follow up story today in Washington Post:  Vaping related illnesses spike       I’ve  been seeing advertisements for vaping products  on TV from big name cigarette companies now.   Go figure
Quitting smoking...it's what every smoker desires.  We've already established that the act of quitting is dead simple.  You simply refrain from putting cigarettes in your mouth and lighting them on fire.  And repeat. The benefits of quitting are many: freedom, improved health, more money in your pocket, etc.  The benefits do not end there.  In fact, the benefits only begin there.  The process, while simple, is a bold action; a step in the right direction.  You commit to leave the rut of comfort behind to begin a journey of self improvement.  The process can strip you bare emotionally.  It sounds harsh, but has a real upside.  The process will force you to deal with things that have been swept under the rug.  You will have to remove your head from the sand and face the truth.  The process will force you to confront the bullstuff that you have tried to pass off as gospel truth.  The truth will set you free, but it will make you uncomfortable for a while. A chain is only as strong as its weakest link.  Addiction is a link in a chain, a chain of self-destructive behavior and self-defeating thoughts.  You break that link and the chain that holds you back weakens.  Hold on, that's when life starts to get interesting.  Potential becomes reality.  Confidence begets confidence.  Strength begets strength.  The process, one that begins with a singular purpose and commitment, sets off a series of ripples that will eventually impact every facet of your life. If you sit back and meekly accept that you are a hopeless addict, what else will you simply accept in life?  If you decide you deserve better and boldly commit to the process, what other bold actions to improve your lot in life will you take on? Trust the process.  Embrace the challenge.  Enjoy the ride.
This is a fabulous post.. a great read...as I was reading my thoughts were saying...This was written from a guy who... 1 yr 4 months ago.was smoking I think 3 pkts a day....How wonderful is that..I have happy tears for you.and I'm so proud for you...this .......Is why I stay around...The Quit train will and does take you to freedom...all you need desire to be there...
Fantastic post, Boo!!!  Inspirational and best of all...100% true!
This is a very important message for new quitters or people who are just lurking and thinking about quitting and, it's true! This is not something that you even think about when you first quit. It's probably never been a reason that someone has quit but, it's probably one of the most important benefits to quitting smoking and one that is not realized by many early on in their quit. A good reason to hang in there through the early part of your quit so you too can enjoy these many benefits of being a non smoker.
This is a fabulous post.. a great read...as I was reading my thoughts were saying...This was written from a guy who... 1 yr 4 months ago.was smoking I think 3 pkts a day....How wonderful is that..I have happy tears for you.and I'm so proud for you...this .......Is why I stay around...The Quit train will and does take you to freedom...all you need desire to be there... Thanks Doreen.  Quitting smoking has been one of the best and most impactful decisions in my life.  And that's a big part of the reason I stick around...get the word out to newbies and those on the fence to take the plunge and never look back.  Those of us who bought the ticket and took the ride have never regretted it. Fantastic post, Boo!!! Inspirational and best of all...100% true! Thanks PT.  Just the facts, nothing but the facts. This is a very important message for new quitters or people who are just lurking and thinking about quitting and, it's true! This is not something that you even think about when you first quit. It's probably never been a reason that someone has quit but, it's probably one of the most important benefits to quitting smoking and one that is not realized by many early on in their quit. A good reason to hang in there through the early part of you quit so you too can enjoy these many benefits of being a non smoker. Absolutely.  When I see a newbie struggling, I hope they get some idea of what's waiting ahead for them if they stay the course.  The fact that one change for the better can become ubiquitous in reach is quite the motivator.  A few bumps in the road should not put you off a journey to the promised land.
I'm on that road and I don't look for any exits until I reach destination "Smoke-Free". Others need to follow us and take their lives back!
Think this post is about eating and your pants....
Think this post is about eating and your pants....Not sure how I missed that.
Think this post is about eating and your pants.... And cheap fortified wine.
I was ruminating earlier today, at least that's what I call it when take a brief break to just stare off into space for a little bit.  Got to thinking how eventful the last three years have been.  Things have been happening fast and the next year is looking to hold some big changes personally and professionally.       Not coincidentally, three years ago is when I decided to quit smoking.  There were a few factors at play when I decided to start making some major changes in my life.  However, quitting smoking was the catalyst for change that set off a chain of events that transformed every facet of my life.       Anyhow...I was going to write a post about how the process of quitting can set off a ripple effect in your life.  Then I remembered that I already wrote a post like that.          On 7/20/2017 at 5:30 AM, Boo said:              Quitting smoking...it's what every smoker desires.  We've already established that the act of quitting is dead simple.  You simply refrain from putting cigarettes in your mouth and lighting them on fire.  And repeat.                                        The benefits of quitting are many: freedom, improved health, more money in your pocket, etc.  The benefits do not end there.  In fact, the benefits only begin there.  The process, while simple, is a bold action; a step in the right direction.  You commit to leave the rut of comfort behind to begin a journey of self improvement.  The process can strip you bare emotionally.  It sounds harsh, but has a real upside.  The process will force you to deal with things that have been swept under the rug.  You will have to remove your head from the sand and face the truth.  The process will force you to confront the bullstuff that you have tried to pass off as gospel truth.  The truth will set you free, but it will make you uncomfortable for a while.                                       A chain is only as strong as its weakest link.  Addiction is a link in a chain, a chain of self-destructive behavior and self-defeating thoughts.  You break that link and the chain that holds you back weakens.  Hold on, that's when life starts to get interesting.  Potential becomes reality.  Confidence begets confidence.  Strength begets strength.  The process, one that begins with a singular purpose and commitment, sets off a series of ripples that will eventually impact every facet of your life.                                      If you sit back and meekly accept that you are a hopeless addict, what else will you simply accept in life?  If you decide you deserve better and boldly commit to the process, what other bold actions to improve your lot in life will you take on?                                       Trust the process.  Embrace the challenge.  Enjoy the ride.
    This was a great inspirational post back when you wrote it ....and reading it again today buddy ....    It's still a great inspirational post now ....  I have had the  best time ...watching you grow day by day ....and your such a massive support to all that ride the train ...    Whatever direction your life takes you in the future ...I wish you every success and happiness...   And hope to still be hanging around in it somewhere ....     
1 hour ago, Boo said:               However, quitting smoking was the catalyst for change that set off a chain of events that transformed every facet of my life.                                   I am so happy for you and may the benefits of quitting smoking continue, Boo.       Quitting smoking was the catalyst for change that set off a chain of events that transformed me, too.     Well, not Every facet of my life...   Quitting smoking didn't transform my marital status for which I am ever gratefully single.  lol.        But, the changes have been quantum none-the-less    and the thing is now, I know how to change.     I have the skills to identify where change is needed and the skills to facilitate change,   I also gained the trust in myself and self-confidence to meet these challenges.     I love seeing this in other quitters, too.  It is remarkable to witness.
I will always remember you all  as part of my support group to stop the cigarettes . I wouldn't have made it without you. Didn't even think i could do it ,but coming up here everyday doing the daily nope and collaborating with people that had the same goals as me pulled me through. It will be 2 years December 12th. I am a firm believer that groups like these really work if   It worked for me. I thank everyone from the bottom of my heart
Great to see you again @Latoya  Thanks for checking in with us. It's always nice to know our QT family members are still on the Quit Train! Sounds like you're really enjoying your smoke free life. I hope your Mom is still well and still quit too.   Be sure to come back for your 2 Year Anniversary! Edited August 23 by reciprocity
    Oh, it is great to hear from you Latoya !  I am so happy you are enjoying your freedom and hope the same for your mom.  See you in December for your Second Year Soiree !
    Glad to hear from you again Latoya, so happy to see that your quit is still going strong !!!!
    Hi Latoya  Thanks for checking in and saying Hi  
    Glad to hear your doing well.  Freedom feels nice, eh?
    Yaaa Good to see you @Latoya.....congrats on your great Quit ...
From, our friend, Joel Spitzer    Supercharging Nicotine’s Addictive Potential  Why are some forms of nicotine delivery more addictive than others? This video explains why inhaling a drug like nicotine is the fastest way to deliver it to the brain and also how cigarette companies and now vaping manufacturers   have manipulated their products to make them even easier to lead to addiction.                  Related Videos   Additive Free Cigarettes    Learning How To Inhale  Nicotine Addiction     and text from Stanford Medicine  Juul's Nicotine Arms Race           Edited August 21 by Sazerac
Here is new  follow up video on the subject.    No matter how much or for how long you smoked, the physical withdrawal peaks within 72 hours.   Then, the psychological work begins.                                 Edited August 26 by Sazerac
As one of three young children, I recall one of the most coveted privileges my mother bestowed upon us.  Shortly after my eighth birthday, and right before Christmas the stars had aligned to give me the winter reward all 3 of us children desired.  Of course my older brother who was 12 got to carry out this deed much more often than me or my sister who was 7.  But tonight he was at a hockey practice with my father.   My pregnant mom, sister and I were driving from our suburban home on an 18 mile trip to see the amazing Christmas lights adorning the vast Boston Common. This was one of my fondest annual childhood memories.   Shortly after our journey began my opportunity to participate in the reward came.  “Honey, reach into my pocketbook and grab me a cigarette and light it, would you?”  You see, my mom refused to take her mittens off will driving due to her poor circulation.  In her wisdom, she recognized how dangerous it would be to try to light a cigarette, while driving, with mittens.  It would be much safer to have her 8 year old son light it for her.  I felt like such an adult as I passed her the lit Pall Mall and blew the smoke toward the back seat where my jealous sister stewed.  The only downside to this whole scenario was that my mother would not allow us to crack the window for fresh air.  “Are you crazy?  It’s freezing out!  Roll that back up right this instant!” Looking back on this, I realize that my mother had practically no idea the danger cigarettes posed to one’s health and absolutely no concept of secondhand smoke.  The Surgeon General had issued vague warnings that cigarette smoking may be harmful to your health.  What’s so discouraging now is that we do know the hazards of smoking and nicotine addiction, yet we see predatory companies pushing children’s flavored vape cartridges.  They even have the audacity to put a warning to keep out of reach of children on the side of Cap'n Crunch, Count Chocula, and Trix flavored flavored vape cartridges. So the battle moves from the ignorance of smoking dangers to predatory targeting of children.  No one ever said it would be easy to win this war.  But each individual victory is a step in the right direction.  Keep up the fight and KTQ.                                 Edited August 20 by BKP
I remember one time, I must've been around five or six years old, my Dad was lying on the couch in our living room. I climbed up on top of him and we just lay there on the couch for what seemed like an hour while he blew smoke rings.       It was awesome.     I didn't get to hang out with my old man much when I was a kid, so this was quality time I'll never forget.     What's funny is that I knew my Dad smoked a lot when I was a kid, but I was chatting with my (older) sister just last week and she told me he smoked 4 packs a day and that there was rarely a time when he was awake that he wasn't smoking.       Crazy the things you remember/don't remember from your childhood.Edited August 21 by JimHannoonen
When was the “eureka” moment?  The world wide accepted “eureka” moment that made people stop, collaborate & listen?  I can confirm that through most of the 1970s/ you could smoke on a plane.  Doctors thought it helped asthma.   Cigars to congratulate the birth of your likely nicotine addicted child.        I believe up to a point; people really did not know any better.  I support that generation.         That generation is dying.       The rest know better.  Or should. Or would if affordable rural health was available to those needing it.        I, too, BKP remember those days.  If my dad heard the theory of second hand smoke-  he would have never smoked in the car, on the plane, or in the restaurant with me.  I never lit a smoke- but I picked up the wayward one from the floor board.
20 hours ago, Lust4Life said:               ... If my dad heard the theory of second hand smoke-  he would have never smoked in the car, on the plane, or in the restaurant with me.  I never lit a smoke- but I picked up the wayward one from the floor board...                                  As someone who grew up in the 70’s.  Early warnings of 2nd hand smoke were everywhere .   I know my parents heard about it also, they just chose not to believe it.   I can’t claim being any smarter though since I eventually became a smoker myself.   Prior to when I started though I used to give my parents a lot of grief about smoking
https://www.marketwatch.com/story/smokers-in-this-state-spend-up-to-23-million-in-their-lifetime-2018-01-17     Smoking costs you more than $27,000 a year. Here’s your no B.S. guide to quitting for good. Published: Jan 9, 2019 1:36 p.m. ET     Billions of dollars is going up in smoke.   Connecticut smokers are coughing up $2,854,614 on their cigarette habits over their lifetimes, according to WalletHub’s “The Real Cost of Smoking by State Report” released on Wednesday. New York, the District of Columbia, Massachusetts and Rhode Island round out the top five most expensive states to light up in, with annual costs topping $50,000, and lifetime costs of more than $2 million. Plus, the estimated 37.8 million Americans who smoke are also costing the U.S. more than $300 billion a year in medical care and lost productivity, according to the CDC.  WalletHub’s report calculated these potential losses by factoring in the annual cost of a cigarette pack per day in each state, as well as the health care expenditures, income losses from lowered productivity and other expenses associated with tobacco products.   ------------------  The article goes into specifics.  Curiously, the cost of smoking over a lifetime equals a very comfortable retirement.
Saving $7 a day in my big mason jar was a big motivator to stay quit.
I have great news ...you can ....yes even you who has smoked for decades... You can quit .....  Just imagine being free from cigarettes.....    Every smoker can kick this killer addiction ....all you need is the desire to be free.. We will help you ,support you ,100/00....   What have you got to lose ...nothing ...you could gain everything....   Deep down you know this addiction will get you in the end ...why wait for that ...  Don't be just another number....make a stand ....   You can do it ....we all did ....
    I can tell from our reinstated online user list that we have a lot of guests viewing topics. I was you until I found that one post from that one member which made me decide to sign up so I could post and thank him for all the support he was unknowingly giving me. You need to register to post and we would love to meet and support you so won't you sign up today? 
    Yup! Nothing to lose and everything to gain. Quitting never killed anyone but smoking well ,you KNOW what the end game of doing that is so why not give quitting a try? You will find that you really do have it in you to quit! We are all the same and all of us who are quit were scared to try because of the unknown. How could I possible function as a nonsmoker? What will I do with my time? How can I get through life's stressful situation without smoking. We ALL pondered these questions as I'm sure you will but we are all here to tell you; It IS possible no matter who you are!
1 hour ago, reciprocity said:                We ALL pondered these questions as I'm sure you will but we are all here to tell you; It IS possible no matter who you are!                Those considering quitting probably have many questions...   How do I quit?  You just quit.  Don't put things in your mouth and light them on fire.  At the end of the day, that's all this process is: refraining from doing one thing repetitively.    What will I need to quit?  Commitment is the only prerequisite.  Education facilitates the process greatly.  And if you're looking for support, look no further, the Train has got your back.   Yeah but...isn't quitting hard?  It has its challenges, but oftentimes the actual difficulty of the quit never lives up to the hype we built for ourselves leading up to the quit.  Continuing to smoke is also a challenge, smoking takes much and gives nothing.  Pick your challenge.  Will you invest in yourself and enjoy the many benefits of quitting?  Or will you continue to sentence yourself to more time on the hamster wheel of futility that smoking is; a decision that will offer no positive returns.  The right decision is obvious.    What are the benefits of quitting?  I'm not even going to attempt to provide a comprehensive list of benefits; it's a long list.  Better health.  Improved quality of life.  A boost in self confidence.  The lessons we learn in quitting have a carryover effect that can help you improve your life in almost every way imaginable.  And of course...Freedom!       The process of quitting is simple.  It's free.  The benefits begin immediately and only accrue with time.  The process will benefit you in ways predicted and unforeseen.       So I close with one question of my own: What are you waiting for?
15 hours ago, jillar said:              I can tell from our reinstated online user list that we have a lot of guests viewing topics. I was you until I found that one post from that one member which made me decide to sign up so I could post and thank him for all the support he was unknowingly giving me.                 You need to register to post and we would love to meet and support you so won't you sign up today?  Quitting is so much more fun on the train ...I swear it's being with these great folks here that helped me solidate my quit ....why do it alone ?   Quitting doesn't have to be doom and gloom ....quite the opposite ...I've had the ride of my life ...   I've not only kicked my killer addiction ...I've had fun doing it ....  Meeting new friends ...what can be better....
    I never thought I would quit and I believed all the lies addiction feeds the addict.        Then, on a whim, I just did it.     Very quickly, I searched for information,   how was I going to feel ?   how long was the withdrawal going to last ? when would the smokey thoughts stop ?       Finding Joel Spitzer at WhyQuit.com and his Daily Quitting Lesson Guide,    I began to understand my nicotine addiction.    For the first ten months of my quit, I lurked here and there    joining to thank everybody for their experiences that helped me so much.    Staying for the camaraderie, the possibility of helping others and continuing my education of nicotine.         That was nearly six years ago and I say to you, 'If I can quit, everybody can quit'
    Jump!       Do it!      Don't waste another minute!
    Everyone on this board has gone through the process of reclaiming their freedom from tobacco.           It's not impossible.        It CAN be done and it's easier with comrades who know perils and pitfalls of addiction.     We are on your side and want to see you succeed.     
C'mon smokers.  It really is not as difficult as you think.     I smoked for 42 years and spent the last 15 years trying different methods to quit; always giving into the addiction.   I became so discouraged.  I knew the dangers of smoking and saw my father-in-law die of lung cancer from smoking.  I was so embarrassed and ashamed that I became a closet smoker.  As a result, I did not want to do much and mostly stayed home and smoked.  I was terrified I would die of a smoking related illness.    One day, I stumbled across the Quittrain forum and started lurking and reading everything I could.  I finally summoned the courage to post and join in the conversations.  Everyone here jumped in and started guiding me.  These strangers seemed as if they had known me my whole life.  Of course they did, because at one time they were like me.  They knew what I needed to hear to muster the courage to quit.  With a little humor and encouragement, they held me up through the difficult weeks and guided me into a smoke free life. Hop on the train and give it a try.  Freedom from nicotine addiction is a wonderful result.
Hi everyone! So I have decided to use my saved money to get a personal trainer a couple of times a week. At almost 55 and 2  herniated disc, type 1 diabetes I don’t know where to start with a safe workout Routine. Since I’m making the decision to get healthy by not smoking I need to also make a plan to get in shape. I know myself and I need to also be  held accountable. Otherwise I will just find a reason not to workout! So what is everyone esle doing with there new found money?
Sounds like you have a good plan.  I have saved my money and at present am having much needed oral surgery and partial dentures (could not afford the implants) made.  One more oral surgery session then getting everything else done -- my saved money basically covers 90% of it (and yes I still have all the savings in my account, it really helps)!!!
    Yes smoking is so bad for your teeth. That’s a great way to spend your $$. I had my teeth fixed years ago. I had poor  enamel.
    Travelling - it's all going there! 
I spent $2,000.00 of it on a new pond filtering system and now my pond is crystal clear  Oh and am spending the rest on once a month housecleaning
I bought several things I needed: new washer and dryer, new desktop computer w 24" monitor, new fitbit and replaced a 60 ft section of fence in yard! I also have someone come in 1x a month to do housecleaning!
Isn’t it nice to share all the things we are doing with our new found money. I  recently paid my car off so now I’m putting that car payment dollar amount in savings each month. Since I got use to not having it.Edited August 3 by Diane R
    I don't know. I have just not had to budget everything around having enough money for smokes.  Fair wack will have gone on the chemist as one of my meds is not PBS listed. I have increased my donations each month. I buy the kid brand name close. Better cuts of meat at the butchers. Occupational therapy for the kids dyslexia (it's experimental so not covered) and her physio for her knee.
    The money I used to spend on cigarettes, is now spent on more food.
    Initially, I used the money saved to build a home gym in the basement of my old house.  Quitting smoking freed up some money to build a home gym.  Building a home gym and working to get in better shape reaffirmed my commitment to stay quit.        It was a perfect circle.
    Boo that’s great way to use your found. Only. I live in Florida no basements here. But I feel the same way I want to start working out too. So personal trainer for now. And perhaps a home gym in the future! 
On 8/3/2019 at 12:50 AM, reciprocity said:              Travelling - it's all going there!          Me too.....
    I need to save it in a mason jar again...it adds up so quickly. My first stash paid for a garden nursery spending spree and broken ankle and leg.   The next stash paid for another broken leg. Maybe, I shouldn't jinx myself...?  I  don't think our superstitious, @notsmokinjo,  would risk it and maybe she is right.      I'll just be more comfortable about treating myself every now and then.
Ah the quit money lol - I need to get my ticker going so it can do all the adding for me! I think in the beginning I will definitely hire a maid service - make things easy on myself and do all the chores I just cant stand!! And now that my BF is jumping on the bandwagon we plan to finish up all those 1/2 finished home improvement jobs we started and never finished lol. I'd really like to have my kitchen re-done and more open. My house is from the 50's so it's definitely time to upgrade!!
    I never decided to put the money aside as such but the money I've saved from not smoking has mostly gone into two things: travelling (continuous) and having my teeth straightened (a few years ago). Both of those are massively big investments in myself that were/are certainly done more easily than if I blew an insane amount of money a year on smoking. 
I am kind of in the same boat as these two. I didn't/don't specifically set aside the cash I would have spent on smoking. Prior to Oct 2017, I was spending only $40 a month on it (RYO cigarettes) So it wasn't significant.   I guess no matter how one spends their previous "cigarette money", it makes buying "needs" more affordable and "wants" a little more guilt free. "I really don't need this but what the heck, at least it is not tobacco". I said that each time I upgraded my already gawdy stereo system. Lead us not into temptation, for that we can easily find on our own.                On 8/3/2019 at 6:06 AM, notsmokinjo said:               I don't know. I have just not had to budget everything around having enough money for smokes.  Fair wack will have gone on the chemist as one of my meds is not PBS listed. I have increased my donations each month. I buy the kid brand name close. Better cuts of meat at the butchers. Occupational therapy for the kids dyslexia (it's experimental so not covered) and her physio for her knee.           Two things -    What is PBS? Here it is some TV station.    Also, you know that kids, especially teens, cannot survive without brand name... well anything really. When I was 10 (84/85), I wanted this torn up jean jacket they had at the store, it was only $80 and didn't understand why my mom wouldn't spend that much on a torn up jacket.               On 8/4/2019 at 7:12 PM, greenlight said:                I never decided to put the money aside as such but the money I've saved from not smoking has mostly gone into two things: travelling (continuous) and having my teeth straightened (a few years ago). Both of those are massively big investments in myself that were/are certainly done more easily than if I blew an insane amount of money a year on smoking.
@JB 883 , welcome back.     PBS is the Pharmaceutical Benefit Scheme.... Australia has a social health system. The PBS caps the price of listed medications at a maximum $40ish and the government pays the rest. Many medications (chemo meds) are fully covered. Pensioners and concession card holders only pay $6.80 per script...then there are thresholds, if you spend a certain amount of money on meds in a year you go to the pensioner price and if you get to the next level it's free. Some medicines are not on the list, so you pay full price. Ventolin puffers cost $6.90 (pensioner/concession card holders get 2 for 1). One of my medications costs me $50 a fortnight. My kid's biggest clothing expense are her shoes. She is just as happy in a Marvel T as she is in a Dangerfield dress so I'm kind of a bit lucky there..but bras, cost me a fricken fortune, I did offer to get some barbed wire to hod in her cows, she did not see the humour.
I would have to say food - well healthier food at least. And then on those mini impulse trips where you just really need to grab 1 or 2 things from a particular store and end up leaving spending close to $100.00.  I need to start leaving my wallet at home and just take a $20 on those days .
    Great question.  Maybe I should pay more attention to her spending ....
    Cocaine and hookers
    LOL - you beat me to it @Octain
    Lol Joking. I have never purchased a hooker.  Well, not directly but I have been married for a long time. As for the for cocaine. Long time ago.  But like cigarettes, I quit that too.     As for the money saved from smoking,  simple lifestyle improvements.     
4 minutes ago, Octain said:             Lol Joking. I have never purchased a hooker.  Well, not directly but I have been married for a long time. As for the for cocaine. Long time ago.  But like cigarettes, I quit that too.                     As for the money saved from smoking,  simple lifestyle improvements.                                I know @Octain .... me too  I did get taken to a strip joint as part of by bachelor party tho  The only exposure to coke I have is when I managed a politician's campaign. Guess who was the coke-head (not me)?Edited August 14 by reciprocity
    Oh my you people are  quite creative with your newfound money lol
    I was going to invite them over with the girls and the blow !
    I've taken to collecting pocket knives.  I've amassed quite a collection over the past couple years.     
Dear QTrain-ers,    I was thinking today about my motivations to quit smoking and to stay quit  and thought I would share them, hoping y'all share your motivations in response.        I consider my resolution to quit was a primary factor but, wealth and health came into play as well.        I quit on a whim, a dare to myself. Unexpectedly, my immediate motivation was an inner strength I found in absolutely committing to the journey.    This really helped me through the bumps, knowing I was clear in my resolve.         In a more mercenary vein, wealth motivated me and if I am honest, it was very important.        Each day, I ceremonially placed a ten dollar bill between the pages of a NOPE book  which filled up quickly and was moved to a mason jar.  Better to see my progress.   In ten days, I had a hundred bucks.     In ten months,  I had Three Thousand  ! I felt like Midas with all that dosh.       As far as health,   I was in ignorant denial and never paid much mind to health risks.  Sure, a minor cold inevitably morphed into bronchitis and I certainly coughed a helluva lot     but, for forty something years, I idiotically accepted that was just the way things were.       I was weeks into my quit before I faced the truth and began to understand the ramifications of smoking and my nicotine addiction.   Facing the damage done, I am tentatively grateful that maybe I quit in time.  I feel great.  Breathing is rapturous, innit !    Now, health is a motivator keeping me nicotine free and I haven't been knocked down with bronchitis in four friggin' years.     Amazing.        The personal empowerment by keeping this commitment to myself has influenced all parts of my life.  I am stronger, braver, more truthful and hopefully have a sincere compassion for others fighting addiction, living with addiction.      All you smoke free creatures here are great inspirations and kick a s s  motivators,  keeping me on the Good Foot.      Tell us, if you will, about your Motivations.       Love,   S    Edited December 21, 2018 by Sazerac
I was sick for a month before I quit - like really sick with bronchitis!! Finally realized I was still smoking even though I could hardly take a breath without initiating a coughing fit. Didn't know if I could make it stick or not but joined a couple of these social media quit smoking sites and educated myself about this addiction. Read stories about other's journeys and that really helped me stay the course through difficult times. 1 year later, here I am. Still quit - still an addict but healthier I expect. My wallet is fatter for sure but that was not a motivating factor for me. I had past many milestones where a pack of smokes hit whatever cost I told myself I would not pay. I had given up on that being a motivational factor for me. - lol.
    Well most of my motivation for quitting is spot on with Sazerac's.  I had been seriously thinking about quitting for a few months and trying to cut down November through December.         I am a disabled veteran and have been treated by the VA medical system for over thirty years and the care has been anywhere from poor to good.  In the last couple of years the VA has been under fire for its treatment of veterans.  The doctors there would always state that I needed to quit but there was no conviction in what they were saying.       A couple of years ago I was assigned new doctor and she has been pretty good and would also state on all appointments I needed a quit.  I saw her in early December and went over this pretty good.  A couple of weeks later some of my tests had come in and her nurse called me.  The nurse said the doctor would do anything to help me quit, the tests were beginning to show some serious negatives.  We had a long discussion over the phone.       After that call I realized that my Doctor and the Nurse truly cared about me and not going through the motions.  I do not know why but this stuck with me, so much so that after the first of this year I quit, just jumped off the cliff cold turkey.  Though the last few weeks there have been difficulties I have not looked back.  To say the least my VA medical team is ecstatic (as well as my grandchildren).      I know you have to make to the choice to quit yours and for yourself but, sometimes somebody really needs to knock you upside the head and show you that your are worth more to yourself.
My motivations to stay quit:    - I was on my way to an oxygen tank. What a ridiculous way to live when I have the power to defeat that possibility. This was my main motivation to quit in the first place: I finally got angry enough about this to do something about it.    - My self esteem is now all entwined with quitting. If I ever gave in now I wouldn't be able to live with myself. The fact that I successfully quit makes me feel good about myself.    - And joyful. Some days I can actually feel joy about my breathing and my discipline and my release from the slavery and my new daily exercise routine, that came about solely from quitting.   - and $1000.00/year money in my pocket ain't too shabby a reason either.        Thanks for the post Sazerac. It's a great reminder and motivator.
What are your motivations ? Making a list of your reasons to quit can be a useful tool in your toolbox. and while I think of it, don't forget to also post a Pre- response to your own SOS, this is so helpful to you and also to the group,  in assists us knowing how to respond to you and helps you to conquer any crisis you may encounter.Edited March 13 by Sazerac
My Motivation, i saw the ending and it's bad. I don't want to go out that way. My lungs and My Health are what motivates meEdited August 4, 2018 by Whispers
After years of failed quits of one sort or another, my motivation to quit was a deep feeling that I had no more time and needed to do it right, and once and for all.   I found QSMB, lurked for a while, got a prescription of Chantix, and made my first post.        Motivation to stay quit--well,... freedom is addictive!  I feel so much better I can't even consider going back. I also believe that the Law of Addiction is 100% accurate.     Jim
Being diagnosed with CAD - coronary artery disease and early stage COPD was motivation enough for me!       February 2017 - Stroke  April 2018 -  CABG x3 (triple Coronary Artery Bypass Graft)          Edited August 4, 2018 by Rozuki
My motivation was my new Dr telling me if I didn't quit smoking I'd be dead in ten to twelve years and on oxygen  My junkie mind even did the math thinking in 10 years I'd be 62 around the age my dad died so it must be my legacy. He was so thrilled to hear I quit and how clear my lungs sound I actually really like him now. So even if I am dead in ten to twelve years at least, hopefully, I won't need oxygen.
I was 55 a year and a half ago getting annual physical. Doc asked me if I was ever going to quit. I said I knew I should or at least cut down, but not anytime soon because I wasn’t ready to. So she said she wanted to send me in for a lung xray to see where I was (baseline thingy) for possible future medical treatment.     That hit me hard; I realized I was playing around with my health, I wasn’t getting any younger and I was heading for a horrible sickly lifestyle in my older years.  I quit a month later using Chantix.
    Reading posts from folks like Tyme today... Drives it home the importance of keep the quit at all costs...this is our lives ,our health..and it's scarey stuff !!
    To stay quit: a big factor is what a waste it would be if I started again after nine months. That I know it wouldn’t be just one. That I see visible benefits from not smoking so why shall I smoke. 
    I have most certainly maintained my Quit since having a bilateral pulmonary embolism. It was diagnosed as “Unprovoked” meaning no cause found with testing. Smoking causes blood to clot faster than normal so I really have to wonder if mine was due to smoking....just no proof. Who in their right mind would smoke after this? 
    Good to see you Tyme....    Smoking causes so many bad illnesses to the body,as smokers we don't even think about...every part of our wonderful bodies are effected.... I too didn't quit until the s*** hit the fan...but I quit.,just like you ..and that something to be proud of...the damage won't go any further..x
On 8/3/2018 at 11:57 AM, Sazerac said:              What are your motivations ? Making a list of your reasons to quit can be a useful tool in your toolbox.                 and while I think of it, don't forget to also post a         Pre- response to your own SOS,         this is so helpful to you and also to the group,  in assists us knowing how to respond to you and helps you to conquer any crisis you may encounter.
    bump
    Father died from tobacco related issues.        My quitting was a final gift to his memory.     Later, I realized the gift came back to me as well.      Smoking would desecrate my father's memorial and that ain't happening.  
I didn't want to wheeze anymore I didn't want to stink anymore  I didn't want to waste my money anymore I didn't want to waste my time anymore  I didn't want to be a slave anymore     My Dad smoked 4 packs a day for over 40 years and died at the age of 56. When I realized I was closing in on 50, I had to stop.     I told my girlfriend (and myself) when I quit that I would never smoke again. That's all the motivation I need.Edited August 16 by JimHannoonen
Well my  motivations  Call me nana and grandma. If I didn’t stop I won’t be here for all the  major milestones in their lives. My oldest started 7th grade this year and the youngest just turned a year old last month. Now to  motivate their papa to do the same.
You are well on your way to a life long quit Diane. My wife quit probably 10 years before me. She never really put it in my face but when I was ready myself to quit her example showed me it was possible so her quit had great value to me. Hopefully the same will be true for your hubby and maybe he will see the light before I did?
    He was  supposed to quit with me. He can go all weekend without smoking. He doesn’t smoke around me. His kids really want him to quit. But I know he has to be ready to quit. 
    Keeping hold of my two plates of meat ( feet )....is my motivation....cigs or feet ...the choice is simple really.  Diane...deep down every smoker on the planet wishes they could quit ,whether they admit it or not ...   You are a good role model for your Hubby...when he see,s you have succeeded....who knows what miracles happen .
What?!?!?!      Say again?      Well according to a few studies and some peripheral observations there ARE a few benefits to regularly using tobacco products.      Lower's risk of total knee replacement in men.          Lower's risk of Parkinson's disease.            Lower's risk of obesity.            Lower's risk of unwanted pregnancy..b'cuz you ain't getting any Ashtray-breath.         The Joys of momentary gratification as you feed your habit.         There are suggestions that smoking alleviates ulcerative colitis.           No need to plan for your 80th birthday.         There is some blurriness to this list.  For instance, you may not need total knee replacement because you weigh less because of smoking BUT if you DO need total knee replacement as a smoker your chance's of complications are much, much higher.     In just about every other way smoking increases your risk of acquiring or worsening every other disease or medical complication, for instance (and just to name a few):         Alzheimer's         Dementia            Glaucoma            Macular degeneration            Coronary Heart Disease          Aneurysm            Peripheral vascular disease         Stroke          Heartburn           Peptic ulcers           Vericose Veins          Crohn's disease         Gallstones          Osteoporosis            Asthma          Lower respiratory tract infections          Stained teeth           Premature tooth-loss            Various gum diseases            Premature aging of the skin (your largest organ)            Persistent coughing         Smelly hair         Yellowed fingers            Bronchitis          High cholesterol            Weaker immune system            Infertility (see benefits #4)           Major diabetes complications            Blood clots         Early menopause         COPD            High blood pressure         Decrease in sense of smell          Pregnancy complications         New born complications          An increase of varying degrees of just about every kind of cancer           Renal failure           Increased chance of falling asleep and dying in FIRE.  Yes, this has happened.          Increased chance of complications and lengthened recovery periods of many medical procedures and surgeries          ...and most significant of all...erectile dysfunction (see benefits #4; again).         And these are just the medical disadvantages to smoking.  We won't bother considering the disadvantages related to personal expenses, taxes, social stigmata, or the medical disadvantages of second hand smoke that impacts those YOU ARE CLOSEST TO YOU, or the resale value of that ashtray-on-wheels you call your car or the stench rising from your cloths.Edited August 16 by Siriustweaking
    Incredible list, @Sirius    for so many years, the light was on lung cancer.    Now the light shines on everything. I know it took a lot longer for simple cuts and scrapes to heal when I smoked   not to mention the annual 'bronchitis, which I no longer have and lots of other things on the list. Hopefully, I quit in time but, even if it catches up with me,   I know that I will never, ever smoke again. My quality of life is measurably better than the smokey days.    
I just don't like the idea of smoking any longer. It seemed such and inseparable part of me for decades but now ...... I can't imagine myself with a cigarette in my mouth. That's a good thing but it's not something I expected to feel when I first quit.Edited August 17 by reciprocity
1 hour ago, Sazerac said:               Hopefully, I quit in time but, even if it catches up with me,                   I know that I will never, ever smoke again.             Here is something from our friend, Joel about this.     "Some people find out that there smoking was treating, or actually more often, masking other pre-existing conditions.   Sometimes they feel that this usage justifies smoking in their cases.   This video addresses the issue of whether or not it is a good idea to use cigarettes to treat pre-existing conditions." JS.
Well hope this comes out ok.  I am well into spending my saved money from quitting.  Most all of you know I am having major dental work and most of the damage was created from smoking.  Anyway had my last oral surgery today -- that was $1100.00 and will include a crown on another tooth.  In 3 weeks I get my impressions for really high quality partial dentures and that will add $3800.00 on top of another 1000 spent for the first oral surgery.  Anyway had some good meds  at the office to get thru and some good meds to get me thru the next three days --- on the down hill roll now and in a month or so will be able to eat somewhat normally and be proud of my smile.  Sure glad I  saved that money, I would like to have travelled some but in the future I can take care of that.   Anyway on the mend and on to a better smile.  No regrets -- I did this to myself and I will get it taken care of now that I have the means and the motivation!!!!!
    Glad you're on the downhill  end of it now martian. We'll be looking forward to seeing that shiny new smile  
    Yay for you, reci!   Enjoy your new smile -- you did the hard work to earn it.  I've spent a fortune on dental fun also.  
They sure know how to charge don,t they! I had some deep cleaning done, as had gum disease which was caused by smoking, luckily the treatment worked, but I still have regular checkups and see a hygienist every 3 months to keep on top of it.    glad it’s all going well for you, and it will be great when you have your new smile. Something to look forward to indeed.All the best
That's great, Martian5!  You just don't realize how damaging smoking is to your teeth (and your arteries, skin, heart, etc.) I go every 4 months for a cleaning now to keep on top of things...after having a lot of "deep cleaning/scaling" to head off periodontal disease....(ouch!). My dentist is impressed at how much my teeth and gums have improved since quitting....so am I!
    I know any visit to the Dental Torture -ist is serious business.    Drink delicious and healing smoothies and sleep as much as you can. Imagine how crazy this would be if you still smoked !   Hope you are back with choppers soon.   s
    I think that's a great investment!! Healthy teeth and gums are just as important to the body as not smoking. Lots of salt water rinses help during the process as well BTDT. You are going to rock that brand new smile!! 
    You’re worth it! Congratulations on this spectacular self care! That’s something to really smile about! 
Great video. Definitely didn't pick up everything but I will be watching again. As far as I get it: There's different types of nicotine receptors, all binding to nicotine but all different properties and all giving off different signals. Some for learning, some for fight or flight response, another one that allows your heart rate to come up. They are widespread through the brain and are  affecting many behaviours. Gives me a clue as to why I unconciously perceived it as a wonderdrug.    Watch, to understand how the different nicotine receptors are hijacked by smoking.  Oh and... tar is not just an unfortunate byproduct of cigarettes, it's actually a feature of the drug delivery device: it carries nicotine to the lungs,  so it can reach the brain rapidly.  Very important aspect of this addiction. Yuck.         Edited October 19, 2018 by MLMR
    Great find MLMR ... this is a brilliant video... @Sazerac will love this if she hasn't seen it.
    Yes, we were having a conversation yesterday and I told her I was still educating myself as much as possible, checking out this lecture and that etc., she was the one to suggest Id post it here because of the educational value. You were right, she loved it     ('Nerdy and good'  )        
But it wasn't too Nerdy... anyone could follow it and breaking it down to science makes it easier to understand the hold it has on us and why it still effects us when its cleared our systems.... understanding that makes beating it so much easier. Strips it of its power. I'm still learning... but I'm better for it. My little old wannabe Irish grandma used to tell me that if I didn't learn one new thing a day I had wasted 24 hours.
Yep, that's also why smokers think they can "tell" a cigerette how they want to "feel" and it gives them the desired effect.     Edited October 19, 2018 by c9jane29
Thanks @MLMR for finding this and posting.  It is a great find !        You are right, @notsmokinjo, it is right up my alley.  Just nerdy enough.    @c9jane29, you brought up a great point I learned in the vid.  I remember well believing the lie , "I'll have a smoke and calm down and have a think"  which only raised my heart rate, messed up circulation and brain function.
    Brilliant video..   Thank you ML for finding and posting...it's always good to see and be reminded of how insidious smoking is ...  And to see something new...well done ...    I remember reading something in Allen Carr the Easy Way.    If pure nicotine was injected in to your body...you would die instantly.... That scarred the crap out of me....
    bump
Well I’ve made it to 3 weeks without smoking. I’m quite proud of myself!  There where  Definitely didn’t know if I would make it. I still think like a smoker. I have no idea how long I will. I’m able to tell myself I don’t smoke. It’s not that I’m having a lot of cravings. But still have all the habits. If I let the dog out I still have the oh time for a smoke thought, but I haven’t acted on it. I really thought after a meal would be the hardest and with my coffee but I don’t really what one at either of those times. All and all I’m doing pretty good. I’ve even gone out for happy hour and not smoked. Almost a whole month. I know it’s going to get easier and easier.  I can’t thank quit train enough for making this journey a lot more pleasant than if would have been. So thanks to everyone that was supported me these lasts weeks.
Well done @Diane R!!! I know you have fewer thoughts for a cigarette, but this video may help to get past the thoughts you do have:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CLp_ic5VgiI
Ankush I have penalty of thoughts about cigarettes. But I know they would do anything for me. I’m still on the Chantix. If I did lite one now I wouldn’t get anything out of it so no point. But the bigger issue is the habit. I’m so conditioned to smoke. After nearly 40 years of smoking, I have a ton of habit related to smoking. I will stay strong though. I’m not about to let cigarettes run my life any longer. I hope your quit it going well for you. And don’t let anything get in your way!
    That's awesome Diane, congratulations  The constant thoughts of smoking are the worst, it drove me crazy but soon you'll have hours of not thinking about them until one day you realize you hadn't thought of them all day. It's a great feeling and every time you stand up to a trigger that trigger gets weaker and weaker.
    Thanks Jillar! I’m on here all day somedays just hanging around and reading post. I have another website I read too. Get a lot of people asking questions about my quit. It’s all so helpful for me. I’m not working so I have a lot of free time way too much I find now.its amazing when you quit how much time you spent  wasting on cigarettes.
    Three weeks is huge, Diane, and you certainly deserve to be very proud of yourself.  I'm glad you're still enjoying your coffee; that was a saving grace for me.  It sounds as if you are plowing through the worst trigger situations and handling them like a champ.  We are very proud of you, too.
    Congratulations, Diane on Three Weeks of Freedom !      The second a smokey thought comes your way, replace it with deep breaths, your 'mantra', and look at something of beauty.   The sooner you banish these thoughts the better and replacing them with something always available, the better too. It won't be long before you will have conquered every receptor and wrenched it away from nicotine.  It really won't be long even though it might seem like forever right now.  
Diane you are doing great and getting thru the toughest times.   It will slowly get better -- keep up the focus and keep strong.  Congrats on the 3 weeks and you should take a little time to celebrate!!!!
Jordan7 I can’t live without my coffee. And sometime I even make it to Starbucks for a nice latte! Not cheap but still less than a pack of cigarettes.  Sazerac still telling myself I don’t smoke. martian5 I will be having happy hour sometime soon to celebrate my 3 weeks.
@Martian5 's reminder to celebrate is really important ! and remember to reward yourself.   All these things solidify your quit along with your reading and posting.
@Diane R Yup, as ex-smokers, we all were conditioned to smoking at some point. This habit formed due to the addictive nature of Nicotine. Keeping my quit going.
    I’m celebrating everyday. And patting myself on the back as well. It’s not easy to leave what I thought of has my best friend for so many years. But really when you think about it cigarettes  where my tormentor. Like being in an abuse relationship to,some degree. 
    You are doing great Diane.  You have conquered the tough weeks.  
Thanks Linda but I’m not out of woods yet. Today I have been thinking about smoking a lot. Seems to me more today than the last 2 weeks. But I have my gum and other things to put in my mouth. Just a matter of changing more of my habits to fit my new life style.
1 hour ago, Diane R said:               I’m celebrating everyday. And patting myself on the back as well. It’s not easy to leave what I thought of has my best friend for so many years. But really when you think about it cigarettes  where my tormentor. Like being in an abuse relationship to,some degree.                 you might find this essay helpful,My Cigarette, My Friend by Joel Spitzer       and here is a short video, dramatizing the essay
    That is great, Diane.  It is often said that the first three weeks are really the roughest.   Things will slowly get better and better.     Keep up the awesome work and thanks for sharing your quit journey with us.  You are doing a great thing.
    Well done !!!!.....nearly one month ...great achievement.....   Having thoughts is OK...as long as you don't act upon it ...    You have a great positive attitude....
@Diane R, that's why this third week is known as WTF week. It's pretty self explanatory lol but you got this 
17 hours ago, Diane R said:             Well I’ve made it to 3 weeks without smoking. I’m quite proud of myself!  There where  Definitely didn’t know if I would make it. I still think like a smoker. I have no idea how long I will. I’m able to tell myself I don’t smoke. It’s not that I’m having a lot of cravings. But still have all the habits.                For what it's worth, learning to truly identify as a non-smoker was the last hurdle I cleared in the process.  I quit smoking.  I had reached a point where serious cravings for a cigarette were few and far between.  However, it just didn't feel entirely possible for me to identify myself as not only a non-smoker but someone who would never smoke again.      Eventually everything clicked together, but it took a little while.  Patience and repetition are not sexy and exciting, but they are two of the most effective tools in your kit.           17 hours ago, Diane R said:             Well I’ve made it to 3 weeks without smoking. I’m quite proud of myself!                That pride is well deserved.  Good job.
    Congratulations @Diane R It seems so surreal that we have come that far without them after all those years of smoking.  Keep up the good work.  IT IS SO WORTH IT!!!
    Good job Diane! You seem to be right on track in this quitting thing.   As others have said, time will work it's magic on getting you settled in and comfortable with your new, nonsmoking lifestyle. We all wish it was a quicker process but considering how long we conditioned ourselves as smokers, it shouldn't come as any surprise that it takes awhile to reprogram our brains. Just keep doing what you're doing and you'll be fine  
    Thanks everyone for all you support and  encouragement.
Good job Diane, 3 weeks is amazing! all that money not spent on self harm!!!! hope you have treated yourself .
Congratulations on making it through the first 3 weeks! Those for me were the toughest. You are right--it will get easier as you keep going!
    How are you feeling, @Diane R? It is great to have you here.  Your posts motivate and inspire people.   Nearing your first month !  What are you experiencing ?  Any issues with Chantix ?   
    Sazerac sorry been Silent today. Had some medical stuff going on. Still not smoking. I haven’t had any problems with the Chantix. I’m still coughing up stuff. I’m not having any cravings at the moment. I haven’t really thought much about smoking the last few days. I’m sure they will come up for time to time. But for now the are nonexistent. So I’m just enjoying that peace for the moment and not questioning it. 
    Right, I knew you were having a procedure.  Hope that went well.    Glad the Chantix is treating you right. As for the coughing up stuff,  your cilia is shedding a lot of gunk from your lungs.    This is temporary, just your lungs cleaning themselves. Of course, if you have worries consult your MD. You are doing GREAT.  Stay focused and remain vigilant.     YOU QUIT SMOKING !!
12 hours ago, Diane R said:             I’m not having any cravings at the moment. I haven’t really thought much about smoking the last few days. I’m sure they will come up for time to time. But for now the are nonexistent. So I’m just enjoying that peace for the moment and not questioning it.              Cravings can be a self-fulfilling prophecy for some.  A fear of future cravings can create cravings.  We obsess about cravings and just know there is one right around the corner waiting to jump out at us.  If you go looking for a craving, you'll probably find one.        Keep enjoying that peace of mind with the knowledge that if you do get the odd craving, you are well equipped to handle it.     You're doing great Diane.
Way to go Ms. R     Keep your focus and you keep your quit.         Your future self is going to be so happy with you.Edited August 13 by Sirius
    I put another month under my belt
    Yes you did QueenB  Congratulations again!!      
    Great Work QB! Doing fabulous!   
    Well done ...that's a Quit to be proud of ...your nearly half way ...
    How are you feeling, @QueenB  ? We are so glad you quit smoking !
34 minutes ago, Sazerac said:               How are you feeling, @QueenB  ?                 We are so glad you quit smoking !           I feel wonderful! I wish I could reply during the day, but work is first!!!. I see so many others have joined the quit and THAT is wonderful. I'm glad that I quit as well. Thank you all for all you do!
    Congratulations QueenB.
    Congratulations QueenB!  You are doing wonderfully. 
    You go QueenB - you are going to RULE this quit!!! I have total faith in you. I'm sure your smell and taste are coming back and that nice deep breath that follows is such a wonderful feeling!! 
    If you are astute or lucky to live long enough, you know,   you have to do some work on yourself during this journey.   I know many of us have thought we have a free ride, we can just do what we do and get by, no problem.   Conquering my addiction reminded me that we can help ourselves to be better humans.     We can be better to ourselves.      We can have more compassion for others, especially addicts. We can examine why we are an addict and why we choose to put our addiction to sleep.    We can discover how to change.      This discovery,     'how to change'  is probably the most important life lesson I have learned in quitting smoking.     What have you discovered in yourself ?
    Agree on all.       I wasn't as weak as i thought . I can just say NO and STOP. Understanding why i was smoking and it was quite foolish
Its still pretty early for me but it has been an event packed time. I have learnt that sometimes I need to put me first.    I have learnt who my real friends are and saddky some of hem aren't the people I have known for 30 years.   I have learnt that I can do amazing things without a crutch to prop me up.  I have learnt that being me is enough, and if its not enough for you that's not really my problem. The sane goes if its too much.
    Never to trust the first post on a new page of chicks v sticks! 
    That you CAN overcome stupidity..
    All of the above and a bag of chips!
It taught me this most of all -     The smoking cessation things they try to sell (most notably vape) are sold by BS'ing people. Here is how i know that -      So Oct 2nd i was going to quit cold turkey. I didn't have cash for all that BS like pills, gum, patches, whatever. I failed. Oct 6th I tried again. I have been successful since then.  But...  When i started reading into a lot of things about "Quit", I kept reading about how people try to quit but fail. Of course they had this miracle snake oil they would sell to help people quit. Because you know, cold turkey doesn't work in most cases. At least according to those trying to sell you something. My thought was, "But i managed to quit cold turkey. Took a couple tries but i got it. I didn't even have to open my purse either..."     So yeah it kind of reinforced what I already knew - For anything you want to do, there are companies saying "You can't do it on your own, but we can sell you something that makes it possible".        Plus i learned how nice it is to go through the day without worrying when I will get to smoke again. Like I take my breaks at work and the thought of stepping out for a cancer stick never crosses my mind. No, instead i think, "Ahh, time for a cup of hot chocolate!"       Shut up, i am addicted to caffeine.
    The one all-encompassing thing I learned during the quitting process was the ability to recognize self-defeating thoughts and stop getting in my own way.  For years I hid behind the line of thought that "I'm a smoker, that's my lot in life."  I had resigned myself to living and eventually dying a smoker.  Eventually I got sick and tired of being chained to a pack of smokes and decided to do whatever was necessary to quit.  Did something that I had previously built up to be impossible...started looking around a bit and decided to seek out other challenges.       Once I quit looking into the mirror and seeing my biggest obstacle to success staring back at me, the ripple effect kicked in.  I've reaped far more from quitting than I ever imagined when I ashed out that last cigarette.
    That the skin color between my index and middle fingers is not naturally yellow/brown.   
    It taught me that I must have stunk pretty bad because my dog "Duncan the donut hound" would sit on the floor and sleep in his dog bed,now he's  like a high school boy with a new girl friend.I can't keep him off me.Ah I don't mind he's a cool dog
20 hours ago, notsmokinjo said:             Never to trust the first post on a new page of chicks v sticks!
    I learned that I could overcome my cigarette addiction.
    I learned that I am the creator of my reality
Oops... Wrong threadEdited April 18, 2018 by PeaceTrain
    I have learned to appreciate my body...not fill it full of crap..that's not supposed to be there... To enjoy life ...   Change is possible....I can do anything I put my mind too....I am stronger than I ever thought possible...   
    I learned I cannot hang around smokers or go to places where they are smoking that includes bars the big trigger I stop smoking many times I didn't realize I'm stupid
1 hour ago, Boater said:                I learned I cannot hang around smokers or go to places where they are smoking that includes bars the big trigger I stop smoking many times I didn't realize I'm stupid          Your not stupid "Boater" you just have some thought in your mind that cigarettes were enjoyable,They weren't,you just smoke a cigarette to raise the nicotine in your system to feel like a non- smoker ,Rather like a heroin addict that has to keep the flow of heroin constant to feel like a non-heroin addict...like you
What has quit smoking taught me?        1)  I can do it.        2) I don't want to do it again.   NOPE!
    I learned I cannot hang around smokers or go to places where they are smoking that includes bars the big trigger I stop smoking many times I didn't realize I'm stupid.       I hope you don't repeat my mistakes
    Empathy for addicts.
On 4/19/2018 at 7:58 AM, Paul723 said:              Empathy for addicts.                me too, Paul.
On 4/17/2018 at 4:57 PM, Boo said:              I had resigned myself to living and eventually dying a smoker.          That is exactly how I was thinking.  I just never seemed strong enough to quit.     So what have I learned.  I am stronger than I thought and never too old to change.  That there is this wonderful community of ex smokers who have been able to make me realize that I can do this.  That I can also help someone else realize their self worth and guide them on the journey to freedom of addiction.   I've also learned the importance of
^^^^ Wow! That's a lot! Good for you.   Just think how this will translate to other things in life for you  
1 hour ago, Linda Thomas said:              That is exactly how I was thinking.  I just never seemed strong enough to quit.                     So what have I learned.  I am stronger than I thought and never too old to change.              Once you quit that cloud that hangs over every smoker's head is banished immediately.  We all remember that cloud...filled with feelings of weakness, futility, fear, failure, loss of control over our own life, etc., etc.        Good riddance to smoke clouds both literal and figurative.
    Pretty much all has been said in this thread really. I guess, for me if theres one thing i learned, i leaned im strong.
    I've learned.... It's never too late...to make changes....to live life to the full....I'm stronger than I ever thought....  Smoking won't change anything.....I've also learned.....Life is so much better...without that black cloud Boo spoke of .....my shame of being a slave to the nicotine...has gone !!!    I've learned ....I'm Worth It  !!!!!     
    I am learning just how amazing the human body is.       The years of abuse it takes and yet it manages to show signs of improvement in a short space of time.        
I learned that smoking in reality is a cruel slavery of all that you are.       Today, after quitting smoking over 6 years ago, I still feel like a happy drunk every day with this beautiful freedom.          CristóbalEdited November 23, 2018 by Cristóbal
    bump
    I learned that I could be proud of the aches and pains in my body from running because ... they're only possible due to no longer being out of breath or wheezing/dying while trying to run.     
Here is one, it is about money -        I wasted $160 in two months on smoking, going through 3 packs a week.   I thought, "$160 could have gone to something more fun or useful".      For me, when I would spend that kind of money on any other luxury/useless things, I would feel strange but when I bought smokes, it was somehow easier to justify. Maybe cause "Oh only about $6 here and there". But then it adds up and is like, "Whoa, THAT was dumb".       So I learned the nicobitch steals slowly so you don't notice til it is in the three figures in weeks. Even if one spends that money on other useless things, it isn't going to kill you.
That even though you are no longer physically addicted to nicotine  the mental side can creep up and still raise it`s ugly head. Happened to me today. The stupid thought that I could have just one and it would not hurt. I did not have one because I know I am a lifetime addict to nicotine. Almost 3 years and you still have the fight. Not nearly as tough as it was but the thought does not completely go away. Perhaps it will someday but regardless the fight is worth it.
22 minutes ago, garry mhudson said:             That even though you are no longer physically addicted to nicotine  the mental side can creep up and still raise it`s ugly head. Happened to me today. The stupid thought that I could have just one and it would not hurt. I did not have one because I know I am a lifetime addict to nicotine. Almost 3 years and you still have the fight. Not nearly as tough as it was but the thought does not completely go away. Perhaps it will someday but regardless the fight is worth it.             You are so right, Garry.  The Fight is worth it !       At nearly six years, sometimes, rarely (maybe a time or two a year),    I get a thought...'gee, ya want a smoke ?'  My immediate and automatic response is NOPE.                  NOPE I DO NOT want a smoke.  My NOPE comes from a deep place and harbors no temptation or doubt.          Time is our friend with NOPE.  It is like a reflex now but, I dare not take it for granted.     The minute that 'stupid thought that I could have just one and it would not hurt'  come into your skull you must root it OUT.       People loose even established quits by not maintaining vigilance so, pay attention to Red Flags. whenever they come up.     I remember, early in my quit,  hearing that quitting smoking is a journey, they weren't kidding.  I am still on the path. It is a good one.
10 hours ago, JB 883 said:                          You are back!
    Hi all, as the title shows, I need advice on what to do when people undermine my quit. This happens every damn day and every time my quit is undermined, I get a crave for a cigarette, and I also go into a furious rage. I have worked hard to keep my quit going, and its very distressing that my quit is undermined on a daily basis. What should I do? Btw, still staying quit, not taken a single puff since the day I quit smoking. The last few days have been terrible. Thanks...
Hey there Ankush, in what way are people undermining your quit? Do they literally and deliberately say, 'go smoke!' Or, 'you are better off smoking anyway!' ... Something like that? Or is it more in a subtle way and sometimes maybe without intention? And that its your addicted brain that interprets it as undermining, while in reality no one can be blamed, not even your brain because it does what its supposed to do?      Either way, you seem to deal with it the right way. By not lightening up and learning yourself to deal with irritating situations in a different way.       A brilliant person here once told me to always carry glitter. When annoyed by someone... throw that stuff in the air and walk off, chin up! (And tits, if you have 'm).      Edited July 24 by MLMR
    Not sure how people are "undermining you quit" but if you find that whatever they are saying to you upsets you, log on here. You know there's a ton  of people here of the same mindset as you and all of us have nothing but the utmost of respect for ALL quitters. You can always get your mental batteries recharged here.  Are these people X-smokers? If not, they don't know sh*t so just ignore them.
    Ignore them. Smile.Come here. And continue to kick-ass !        
@MLMR No they're not telling me to go smoke, although on one occasion (I think a week and a half ago), I confessed to my mom that I was tempted to go by a cigarette, and all she could tell me was that I have a sick mind and should just go back to smoking. When I quit smoking, I had specifically told her not tell me such things if at some point I got so distressed and told her that I wanted to smoke, but she said it to me anyways. @reciprocity Its the wrong done to me that upsets me. I don't know if they are ex-smokers or current smokers or never smokers (mom is definitely a never smoker though).@Eight-Toe Joe Your advice made me smile. Thank you Edited July 24 by Ankush
    Ankush, sounds like your mom most likely always does a number on your self esteem.  She is definitely not a loving, supportive parent.  You are not quitting smoking for her or any of these other people who are undermining you.  You are quitting for you.   I can tell you that, when I quit, I was taking care of two very unloving parents, who could do a real job on my self esteem.  Due to their age and health, I was going out of my way to accommodate them.  I allowed them to use me and emotionally abuse me.  During my quit journey, I finally realized the strong person I was.  I take care of me first and I do not let them control me anymore.   What your are doing right now is outstanding.  You are quitting an addiction, which is not an easy feat.  Be proud of yourself and do not let anyone undermine that. Everyday you avoid those cigarettes you are gaining so much power and control over you life.  You will find that those people will no longer be able to control your feelings.  
41 minutes ago, Linda Thomas said:              sounds like your mom most likely always does a number on your self esteem           That's true, and she's not the only one who does it. The more I fight back and prevent my mom and anybody else from controlling my life and effing up my confidence and self-esteem, the more they try it. It can be really annoying. Always encroaching on my time and violating boundaries I set. I try my best not to let this happen (the encroaching on my time and violating my boundaries), but it still does.
    Sweetie, only you can let them to do that.  With my family, it was their way or the highway.  If I tried to stand up for myself, they would cut me off.  I spent my lifetime trying to prove what a wonderful person I was.  That was a lot of wasted time because they were not going to change.  If setting boundaries means the loss of them in your life, then that is best for you.  You deserved to be loved and respected.  
@Linda Thomas But I don't let them do that, I don't let them do that by fighting back and they do it more and more (like little immature children, one would think they had common sense to behave their age) and then I fight back more and I'm stuck in a circle. Somehow, in their eyes, I always come out the a***ole. I'm not perfect and I've done some things I regret, but I'm not a completely bad person. I know there is a good side to me. I do not want to lose anymore people from my life, I've already lost all my friends and most family members (which I never wanted, but was forced to cut off from them). The only people I now have in my life are my immediate family (mom, dad, brother and sister, 3 dogs), I cannot afford to lose them too, it would be too painful. My family has pretty much set that condition on my life too, its their way or the highway, considering that I've been wronged in so many ways, I'm not going to do things their way ever, so its the highway, and continuing to live under the same roofs nevertheless.Edited July 24 by Ankush
This video may help answer your question            Listen to @Linda Thomas, she has this experience with her parents.  I am so sorry you are going through this too.   Please, continue to believe in yourself.    You do not deserve to be abused.    Remove yourself as much as possible from their sphere,  you can have a free life, a peaceful life, an enriched life.    I know I found people outside my family for support and appropriate love and care   when my family gave me short shrift.  Now my support network is worldwide ! Take good care of yourself and your quit.   You are winning and your self confidence and trust in yourself will continue to flourish.Edited July 24 by Sazerac
@Sazerac but they're my family, I cannot just remove them. While severely lacking in emotional and moral support, they have given me support (financially) in other ways as normal families would. I've tried so much to be independent of them financially, so that I could stand on my own two feet, do what I wanted to with my life and support them (family) back. My parents are after all in their 60s. I thought I had my emotional and moral support (through friends and other family members) and just good times, outside my immediate family, but it turned out they were just in cahoots with my family as well. I wish I had that self-confidence, it comes and goes.        Thank you for your replies one and all. I have often thought, I'll just have one cigarette and be done with smoking forever to calm my nerves, but I know that's not a good way of thinking, and that's only going to lead to the same 3 - 4 cigarettes a day, which I don't want. So, rest assured, as much as smoking monster tries to get me back, I won't let it.
58 minutes ago, Ankush said:                I know﻿﻿ ﻿﻿there is a good side to me.              We do too mate. You're still pretty new in your quit and there you are welcoming every newbie, looking out for everyone else, sharing your thoughts, support, opponions in an open and courteous way. You my friend, are a bloody good egg.  You have immense value. You deserve respect because you certainly show it.         Now, when we give up smoking some of us don't have to just deal with cravings. Some of us get to face all those insecurities and hurts we have had programmed into us since we were kids. Why, because while we smoked we programmed part of our brain to think that smoking made it all feel better...our brains learnt that when we felt worthless and useless (usually by the people who shouldn't make us feel that way) we'd have a smoke, when your mum would make you feel like shit you'd go have a smoke...so of course those are the buttons our addiction will push in its dying efforts to get you to throw away your quit. You should be proud of yourself for staying true, this is a hard stage, I've been there and it passes.      So, on to the family dynamic, especially your mum, here is a thought that helps me cope at times, how sad and miserable must their lives be that they need to get their own happiness by causing someone else's sadness. That is truely sad. People who need to make others feel worthless to make themselves feel superior deserve our pity.       You are very much wanted, you are very much worthwhile, and warts and all (even though you keep saying you have them I amyet to see evidence of) we know you are more than just a person with some good. There is a shit load of good in you.       We all have things in our pasts we regret, but it's in the past, you can't change it, you can't undo it....all you can go is move forward and try not to repeat it.Edited July 24 by notsmokinjo
@notsmokinjo Thank you for your kind thoughts. Just one question though, when you say "warts", do you literally mean warts or do you mean "having a negative side", not sure.
I'm sorry you're dealing with this Ankush. This early in your quit everything is amplified. Hopefully as you progress you will find yourself like Linda did and start to realise your self worth. Hugs to you kiddo, xoxoEdited July 24 by jillar
    Thank you @jillar, thank you very much 
    Hold tight to your quit, Ankush. This is paramount. You are doing great !       Stay vigilant and keep doubts about smoking away.   You are still in the early stages of your quit and must protect it fiercely.    Remember Cristóbal's, YOUR QUIT & YOUR LIFE - THE PROPER SEQUENCE       You will get stronger and stronger, you must believe us.    As time goes by, your self confidence and self esteem will bring goodness into your life.    
Thank you @Sazerac but I already think I'm strong enough, and I don't think I need to be any stronger. Its not easy. When I was young (a teenager and even in my early 20s) my mom used to always tell me "You're not strong, you're not strong, you're weak", so while I know you mean well, please don't tell me I need to be stronger. I'm 38 now and still I hear that "Be stronger". How long must I wait till my life becomes better and I live it on my own terms with no hindrance whatsoever and how much stronger am I supposed to be. I'm also on psychiatric medication, all psychiatrists I've across only want to pump my brain with useless medication. I'm trying to cut down on psychiatric medication as well. I do not even trust my psychiatrists. I'm mentally tired. I've tried so many times to live life on my own terms and on so many occasions to improve my life, it sucks not having any income from the past 2 and a half+ years as well. Although, it has been difficult with so much going on, to accurately define for myself what my terms of my life should be. I have however, reached a list of my terms. But yes, thank you for that link. Its helpful.Edited July 24 by Ankush
22 minutes ago, Ankush said:                please don't tell me I need to be stronger.             Ankush, I am not telling you that you need to be stronger.  Nor, am I intimating that you are weak in any way.  You are a hero to yourself (and us !) for quitting smoking and holding fast to your quit.   I am only saying that after quitting smoking    self confidence builds naturally to give us more strength that we realize.
@Sazerac OK, thank you for the clarification...
You have no responsibility to take anyone else's opinion to heart...even family members.        Let 'em call you weak, just remember that you are strong.       Be relentless with the commitment you have made to yourself and you will be immune from external criticism.         10 hours ago, Ankush said:               Btw, still staying quit, not taken a single puff since the day I quit smoking.             Good job Ankush.  Onward and upward.
    Aww I'm sorry your dealing with all this ...it's a shame ...I tell my kids how wonderful they are every day !!! But look how strong you are ...your fighting this horrible addiction with every thing you've got ...    I say that something to be very proud of... You will get all the support you need ...right here ...
8 hours ago, Ankush said:   @notsmokinjo Thank you for your kind thoughts. Just one question though, when you say "warts", do you literally mean warts or do you mean "having a negative side", not sure.           Wasn't ignoring you, I took a tablet to get some sleep. It's just a figure of speech...like having a negative side not actual warts.... But even that seems a little harsh....basically it means we like you just the way you are.  I didn't  mean you have negatives .... Just meant you are who you are and that's fine with us.  Sometimes I forget that the rest of the world didn't grow up speaking in idioms and slang. Always happy to translate my gibberish.Edited July 24 by notsmokinjo
    Oh mate...trust me it gets better...when we quit it can play havoc with medications, especially mental health ones. Quitting can also effect how our endocrine system works, which often effects our mental health too. I'm only a few years older than you and I know I still deal with issues caused by my mum and her words and actions. I know at the moment you don't trust your psychiatrist and you want to be off the meds, I get it, I really do, but please remember that many people need to have their medications changed when they quit. It plays that much with how our body and mind works. Please don't just stop your meds. You have a whole train of people here who think Ankush is a pretty top bloke. Stay safe my friend.
     
Ok story time:  Last week, and i have been quit a while now.... Mum: Aren't you going out for a smoke.  Me: *deep breath and sigh.* My kid: Grandma you know mum doesn't smoke anymore. Mum: and you should know it won't last she will fail at that. Your mum is useless. Besides she was much nicer when she smoked and she is getting fatter she should smoke.       Did I loose my shit: NOPE   Did I storm out: NOPE   Did I cry: NOPE....well maybe a little bit on the inside.   Did the little girl in me who still wants this woman to just accept me as I am want to go and have a smoke...hell to the NOPE!!!        So your original post you asked for suggestions of what to do... this is what I did.... 1. I rolled my eyes (which triggered a whole rant to the kid about how rude her mum is and she shouldn't be like that) .... Don't do that...don't roll ya eyes, well maybe but only if noone nasty can see. 2. I took a big, deep breath in and out.    3. I counted to 10 in English, Italian,  French and Japanese in my my head  4. I reminded myself that there is something fundamentally wrong with the woman, that is not my fault but because I am such a strong, amazing person she uses me to try and make herself feel better.   5. I said nothing and went back to the conversation with everyone else there as if nothing was said....this gave her fire no oxygen to burn.        Sure it hurts but the options are cut her out and loose my family because I know who's side they will fall on or pity her, which takes away a lot of the hurt...how can someone worthy of your pity hurt you.                        Edited July 24 by notsmokinjo
Love,love,love this advice for ankush @notsmokinjo. Thank you, xoxoEdited July 24 by jillar
@Boo Thank you very much, I will keep marching forward
@notsmokinjo Thank you for the replies. Mental health medication is terrible, 10 years on them, and I hate it. They come with their own side effects and can play havoc with physical well being. I have a problem with insomnia and disturbed sleep wake cycles, the latter has been sorted out thankfully. Insomnia, not so much. As far as my mom goes, to be fair, sometimes she does tell me don't smoke (when I'm upset), at other times she tells me I have a sick mind and demeans me. That's how she plays with my head, she doesn't realize it which is all the more annoying. I've told her I'm her son and to treat me like that, I've gone as far as being extremely blunt and saying I'm not her b***h. Smoking isn't the only thing she picks on, its several things on a day to day basis and this has been going on for several years, always asking questions indirectly, speaking for me and assuming my silence as agreeing with what she said, trying to put words in my mouth, and even manipulating me into thinking I had said something when I didn't and making me look like a crazy person. The worst part is even other members of the family have done this, and friends have too, and so many unknown morons where I come from have as well. I get mad, and she says I have no control over my temper and I need medicine, and has put me on it for 10+ years now.@Doreensfree Thank you for your support@Sazerac Thank you for the videoEdited July 25 by Ankush
No matter what one does or wants to do, good or bad, SOMEone will undermine it. Even if it is just something you take pride in, someone will want to put it down.   Maybe "Oh you cannot/will not" or there are the one-ups men. Like if you are good at a sport but they know someone who is 10 times better at it.        Now I almost hate to give this advice but if you do relapse, start asking those same people for cigarettes or money to buy packs. I promise they will then encourage you to quit or stay quit.  Shoot, maybe ask for cigarette money even if you do not relapse (but spend the money wisely like ebay stuff). They will stop undermining your quit.     EDIT - hey I forgot,  - The person who says it cannot be done should not interrupt the person who is doing it.  So ankush, next time they start flapping their lip, just say, "Hang on, I am on my not-smoking break"            Edited August 9 by JB 883
1 hour ago, JB 883 said:                So ankush, next time they start flapping their lip, just say, "Hang on, I am on my not-smoking break"       @JB 883 Thank you for your advice. The last line ^^ was funny.
Yesterday I went fishing with a friend of mine who I hadn't seen in a few years. We used to go fishing pretty often until life got in the way. I knew he was a smoker of both cigarettes and pot (he LOVES his pot!!). Last time we were together I was a smoker too (cigarettes primarily). I was curious to see if he would say anything to me about why I wasn't smoking. Hey! We're stuck together in a 12 foot aluminum boat 8 km's (5 miles) out on Lake Erie for 6 hours so talk is gonna happen when we're not reeling in a fish! So he says nothing to me about why I was no longer smoking. I watch him going about 1 to 1 on the joints and cigarettes. I didn't say anything to him about his smoking but did notice him coughing and hacking, more when he was smoking the pot than when he was smoking cigarettes but still ..... there was clearly a lung issue going on there.      This guy is probably mid-40's, overweight and still a heavy smoker when you combine both the cigs and the pot.          I'm just wondering what others might do in a similar situation? Start a conversation about smoking in general or just remain silent unless the other person brings up the subject? I don't want to be one of those reformed smokers who pesters people about smoking but I also don't like seeing friends going down a path I know only leads to a bad place.       What do think you would have done in the same circumstances? The reason I ask now is we will probably be going fishing again this year before the lakes freeze over. I will therefore have another opportunity to either do nothing or maybe say something?     Oh yeah! We caught 5 decent size Walleye yesterday. They are a nice eating fish for those who don't know what a Walleye is. Moist, tender, non-fishy tasting white meat fish.
    I managed to piss off some people early in my quit (mostly family members that continue to smoke). I couldn't hold back stating "God, you stink!" Oops.... 
    I don't tend to discuss other people's smoking. They already know full well what the dangers are and that they are addicted. And my god I hated anyone lecturing me when I still smoked, I was fully aware of everything it was doing to me. After all, I am yet to meet anyone who would have quit just because someone told them to, it has to be because they want to quit. I have, however, given a few pep talks when people have shown interest in quitting - this is where I feel I can actually offer something. Usually in my case smokers have asked me about how I quit and the conversation has gone on from there. So personally, I would wait until he expresses even a little interest in your quit/quitting himself - I'm pretty sure he already knows what it's doing to him. 
    I would not say anything.  I never wanted anyone to notice my smoking.  If he did ask about my quit then I would guide him to this forum and encourage him.
I love Walleye.  I don't know if I would bring up the conversation alone with a smoker in a boat in the middle of lake Erie.  Lol.      I talk to my friends about smoking, they ask me questions also. This is pretty casual.  The don't smoke around me, that's a rule.   Mostly,  they cannot believe that I quit.       I talk to strangers about it sometimes.  Not everybody, not the same person twice (unless they ask me). This happens at local bars or music clubs.  Maybe 1 or 2 people every few months.  I try to suss them out, see if they might be receptive.  I don't admonish.       My rap is:  'you know,  I was a heavy smoker for 40 something years and quit cold turkey..(now almost 6) years ago. I just want you to know that it isn't impossible, anyone can do it. It has to do with understanding nicotine addiction and making a commitment to yourself. That's all. I am still active on a stop smoking website, it is a great place for education and camaraderie and there are many success stories'  Here is the address....Quittrain.com'       Sometimes people come over and want to know more.  Mostly they don't.  Some thank me.   I am very low key about it except for my exuberance about being quit, can't hide that.      I would like some QTrain cards.     It would be great to have a barcode on it so people could just take a snap on their phone and get here instantly.   Maybe @MarylandQuitter would be into this or one of our geeks could put it together.
    I wouldn't say anything either until I was asked for the same reasons stated above. Congrats on the successful fishing too 
12 minutes ago, Sazerac said:               I would like some QTrain cards.                     It would be great to have a barcode on it so people could just take a snap on their phone and get here instantly.                   Maybe @MarylandQuitter would be into this or one of our geeks could put it together.            You're talking about a card with a QR code on it? I wonder if it's possible to create and post a QR (quick response) code then print it out yourself and have it readable through the printout - or, send the image to your phone so you can whip it out and say, here. I'll send this to you so you can can check it out?
1 minute ago, reciprocity said:             You're talking about a card with a QR code on it? I wonder if it's possible to create and post a QR (quick response) code then print it out yourself and have it readable through the printout - or, send the image to your phone so you can whip it out and say, here. I'll send this to you so you can can check it out?              I am not savvy enough to even know what I am talking about  but,    don't places like clubs and stores have what looks like a bar code on their card    and you can magically get to the site by clicking on it in your phone ?  or am I future tripping ?
    Yes - it's the QR code you're referring to: I'm not techie either but once you have produced a QR code you can either download an app to read it or if your have an IPhone, I believe there's a built-in reader. You could convey the same info. by handing over a piece of paper with the QTrain website hhtp on it but using the QR code would be way cooler, depending on the demographics of who you are dealing with  
    yes @reciprocity that is exactly what I am talking about.   Way cooler that quittrain.com scrawled on a bev nap.  A card with the logo, the address and the QR code would be really great.      Here is something from our friend, Joel Spitzer, about Helping Others Quit   
52 minutes ago, greenlight said:                I don't tend to discuss other people's smoking. They already know full well what the dangers are and that they are addicted. And my god I hated anyone lecturing me when I still smoked, I was fully aware of everything it was doing to me. After all, I am yet to meet anyone who would have quit just because someone told them to, it has to be because they want to quit. I have, however, given a few pep talks when people have shown interest in quitting - this is where I feel I can actually offer something. Usually in my case smokers have asked me about how I quit and the conversation has gone on from there. So personally, I would wait until he expresses even a little interest in your quit/quitting himself - I'm pretty sure he already knows what it's doing to him.          Your response is interesting in a number of ways. I'm not sure I really understood the personal implications of smoking when I was a smoker. Oh sure, I knew all the statistics and had heard all the horror stories of what smoking had done to people but I was completely in denial I think. Not me - I'm special! Maybe - just maybe if someone I respected talked to me in a caring way about what their experience had been, before and after, then maybe I would have at least given it some thought? I agree, that talk would not have made me quit but start the thought process maybe?        Maybe the approach next time is; "Hey Tom! Did you realize I quit smoking?" Then just see what the response is?     Anyway, good food for thought.
8 minutes ago, reciprocity said:                Yes - it's the QR code you're referring to:                 I'm not techie either but once you have produced a QR code you can either download an app to read it or if your have an IPhone, I believe there's a built-in reader. You could convey the same info. by handing over a piece of paper with the QTrain website hhtp on it but using the QR code would be way cooler, depending on the demographics of who you are dealing with       A friend just sent this to me, apparently we have one,  I don't have the ap to read it on my phone but, for those that do   here it is
@Sazerac, that's a great idea but the logistics of sending cards worldwide is an issue. It might have to be just a digital message that people can download to either their phone or to their printer to print out hard copies. I don't know how critical image sharpness for the QR codes is for reproduction on say an ink-jet printer.
Here's a link. Maybe this will help?https://uqr.me/qr-code-generator/blog/best-qr-code-readers/Edited August 5 by reciprocity
    I have to agree with Greenlight.  I really would get peeved if others went on about my smoking (I was in the mode of "it's my life if I want to die early I will).  So I don't really talk to others about quitting unless I am asked -- then I really go all in on the benefits I have had with quitting (focusing on what quitting did for me not for them).  Usually if someone is contemplating quitting they have asked me about the ins and outs of quitting I will try and give them some encouragement and resources.  This can be a tricky subject with some but you have to make sure the other person might be seriously thinking about quitting if not they may have to learn on their own which most quitters have done.  Great question!!!! 
I guess the reason I asked the question in the first place is what is embodied in your statement @Martian5: "they may have to learn on their own which most quitters have done".        Yes, I eventually woke up eventually too but now wish I had years earlier. I guess it's in most of us to want to help others we care about with a wake-up call. That's why this is a tough one to give a "correct" answer to that will apply to the majority of people.     I really do think this guy is heading down a road to somewhere I don't want to see him go & I just believe he will eventually regret not waking up sooner
    I have a bit of a dilemma with a friend of mine as well.  I've mentioned him here before.  He has been "planning" on quitting for over two years now.  Regardless of how much information he gathers, there is always a "reason" (excuse) for why he can't quit right now.  He is also looking for that perfect time to quit when there is no possibility of encountering any of life's stresses during the first weeks of his quit.  I suggested that he find a nice monastery on a mountaintop in Nepal and live there for a few months.  He said I was being a smart-ass.        On the one hand, I want to help this guy and he has asked for my advice.  On the other hand, I feel like I'm beating my head against the wall answering the same questions to no avail.  And I've come to the conclusion that he is not looking for actual answers, he is hoping that I will eventually change my answer and give him the confirmation bias he desires.  That's not gonna happen.       Quitting smoking is simple.  Convincing others to make better decisions is damn near impossible.
If you did a poll of our members I'm betting you will find that 90% of them or more had someone tell them they should quit years before they actually decided to quit. I hated when people told me and I promised myself I wouldn't be that kind of ex smoker. I do however love to give advice to anyone who says they are thinking of quitting or trying to quit.
    I tried everything ...to get my best buddy to quit ...all I did was annoy her ...   They have to want to do it for themselves...pity the cigs caught up with my friend before that happened ..
    I wait to be asked.. usually someone will ask if I have a spare durry and I will say, nope I quit ##ago...which either leads to questions, nothing or "bullshit"...to which i say, "yeah-NAH one-a the best things I ever did" (kinda hard to top the kid)....which either leads to questions or nothing...I get where ya coming from @reciprocity, I've got a couple of mates/relos who I wish would quit but my nagging ain't going to help.
    All of my family and most of my friends are still smokers, but I try not to do the ex smoker speech, but if they ask I will chat about it and tell them how much better I feel etc. Most people still cant believe I managed to stop in the first place as I was a full on smoker, first thing in the morning, every opportunity during the day, driving to and from jobs, even if I woke up in the night for any reason . I think you have to worry about your own not smoking fight and let others do it when they decide they are ready, and you can offer your support and advice then.Most of us don't respond too well to being told what to do or not do. Has anyone else noticed when you are around smokers who know you have given up, they always tell you they have cut down a lot recently!
Not sure what I would say. There have been periods in my life when I used to smoke pot and cigarettes too. Before I became a smoker, as far as I remember, I never told any of my friends (who were smokers) to quit. It was their choice, and I used to think when they are ready to quit they will. I can't force my advice on anybody. I can just give it but in the end its their choice whether they want to take my advice or not. After I became a smoker, as far as I remember, there were a couple of friends who I used to once in a way talk about quitting smoking (one I knew for more than 10 years and the other a social smoker, I knew for around 3+ years). The guy I knew for more than 10 years, used to quit smoking then start then quit and so on. When he used to quit smoking, he used to keep a small pouch of tobacco (with filter) in his mouth to get his fix of Nicotine. I had told him that it can lead to mouth cancer, and was no different than smoking. Anyway, I never advised him to quit, we used to discuss quitting, he did quit off and on, I didn't for a long time (until this year). I am not in contact with this friend from 2 years now, so I don't know if he still smokes or not. As far as the social smoker friend goes, he had told me several times to quit smoking or to at least reduce smoking drastically (I used to cough a lot and used to take cough syrup everyday). I am not in contact with this friend either from the past 2 years. So again, I don't know if he has quit smoking altogether or not as well. Some other friends who I knew from college (graduation days) used to smoke. I don't know if any of them smoke now (not in touch with any of them from 2 years as well. I would probably advise them to cut down if I saw them coughing a lot the way I used to cough, but quitting is entirely their choice. Mostly, in the end, I think I would keep my mouth shut, because again its their choice whether to quit or not and I don't want to come across as imposing my advise on them.
    Guess it's best to keep my yap shut and wait until he inquires about it, if he does. Probably nothing to be gained by me initiating the conversation as I do agree that people have to want it for themselves and you can't provide them with that desire by preaching to them.
    There's not much point in preaching the good word to those who don't want to see the light.  Those spreading the message will find it to be an exercise in futility.  While those cigarette smoking heathens will only consider you to be a pain in the ass.  Lecturing an addict who has no will to change is like trying to nail Jell-O to the wall; you can work at it all day and never accomplish anything.        That being said: Don't hesitate to celebrate your quit.  Don't hide your pride.  Don't muzzle your truth.  When you make positive changes in your life, there are going to be some "nattering nabobs of negativism" that will try to rain on your parade.  Don't let 'em.  You've done one of the best things for yourself you will ever do; shout it from the rooftops if you are so inclined.     As for those who are uncomfortable with your success, that's their problem not yours.
    I don't have a single friend that smokes, so I don't really have anyone to lecture.     That said, if I was in your situation, I would say something. Probably something along the lines of "Dude, you sound like sh*t. Have you considered quitting smoking?" and see where it goes from there. If he was interested, I'd turn into a preacher. If he wasn't, I'd say "You're funeral,. dude" and carry on fishing.                 
14 minutes ago, Boo said:                 Lecturing an addict who has no will to change is like trying to nail Jell-O to the wall;              Who says it can't be done?!
    Thanks for all the valuable input fellow quitters I appreciate every comment. I'm still a bit on the fence about this but likely wom't bring it up if not in a perfect situation. I'll see how things go next time out and will let y'all know    
On 8/4/2019 at 10:24 PM, jillar said:               If you did a poll of our members I'm betting you will find that 90% of them or more had someone tell them they should quit years before they actually decided to quit. I hated when people told me and I promised myself I wouldn't be that kind of ex smoker. I do however love to give advice to anyone who says they are thinking of quitting or trying to quit.                 Anybody who was born after 1965 (surgeon general report) very likely started seeing and hearing of all the dangers in school and on TV by the time they were old enough to contemplate smoking or maybe even experimenting with smoking, I certainly did.       And if you were born after 1975, you have definitely seen it all your life.         Despite all of that I still started smoking .       I don’t think anyone can say “I didn’t know” or even “no one told me” after the surgeon general report      Personally I am not going to tell anyone that they should stop.   I will gladly encourage and educate anyone who asks me though, and also sneak in a boast  about myself in the process
As a new quitter, I wanted to tell everyone that could quit too, that they didn't need to be tied to the habit.  If I could do it, they certainly could.        Now, I'll only talk to someone if they ask me for input.        Over the last couple of years, I've talked to a few people who asked me and my success rate is 0.  Only 1 person has quit a few times going a few months last time but think he's smoking again now.
    I suppose our perspective changes (a lot) once we are successful quitters and we want to "save the smoking world" but to no avail  Makes sense actually because that unwavering commitment that comes from deep down inside all quitters is something you can't persuade someone to gather. they gotta do that themselves.
On 8/5/2019 at 6:58 PM, JimHannoonen said:              I don't have a single friend that smokes, so I don't really have anyone to lecture.                                     That said, if I was in your situation, I would say something. Probably something along the lines of "Dude, you sound like sh*t. Have you considered quitting smoking?" and see where it goes from there. If he was interested, I'd turn into a preacher. If he wasn't, I'd say "You're funeral,. dude" and carry on fishing.                                So if he were semi-interested, would you turn into the preacher for his funeral?
Hi there!       I'd like to set up this thread as a milestone or challenge thread that new quitters can post to day to track their progress.    Its also a great way for people to acknowledge their progress... I like the daily Nope pledge, but it doesn't have any context or sense of progression. Its hard to reply to each person simply typing 'Nope'....       Hopefully threads like this will be ways to keep encouraging and celebrating and helping relapsers to keep pushing. Rather than super long threads about why my quit is failing lets just get through each day - treat this like a long long race and keep pushing forward?     While I think the Celebrations thread is awesome, it feels a bit daunting for a Day 1 quitter to read about someone reaching 1 year or 5 years. That's Mount Everest for us and can lead to a sense of disillusionment - but it is also inspirational no doubt! We need a way to group people together at the same stage of their quit.     Once I have reached Day 7 I will open a 14 day challenge thread.    if I/we relapse then reset your counter and keep posting to this thread until you reach 7 days!! and PLAN to NEVER COME BACK to the 7 day challenge Thanks, Matt BEdited August 1 by Matt B
Day 1/7 - Feeling strong but I know Day 2 will be chaos so here goes!!Edited August 1 by Matt B
Who else wants to join me?? Even if you are not on Day 1, as long as you are less than 7 days into your quit then start posting!    If someone reaches 7 days, I'll open the next challengeEdited August 1 by Matt B
    Hey Matt, just dropping in to say good idea and welcome. Nice to have another Aussie onboard, even if he is from Sydney...at least it's not Adelaide 
Thanks mate for touching base! Where are all the new quitters lol? Hopefully I’ll have a few buddies to help me in my progress. Previous best was 8 months with a couple of 3 month stints also. So I know I can do this. But so much easier when I’m not talking to myself  I have a phone app with chat but no threads so it has no sense of progress. Just on demand talking and encouragement etcEdited August 1 by Matt B
My quit date is 27th July, 2019 @Matt B. My previous quit date was 2nd April this year, but I blew it with one cigarette last week. So starting over. Your plan to keep quits going is good, and I'll go with it. I will, however, still take the daily Nope pledge, as it has helped me a lot. Also, welcome aboard!!!
Hi Ankush!      Im soo glad someone else is with me here!   Sure I’ll also do the daily nope - it’s very powerful.  So you are on day 4 or 5?   Just post every day which day you are on. When you get to day 7 I’ll open the 14 day thread.Edited August 1 by Matt B
Day 6, including the 27th. I'm thinking this thread should probably under the "Games" section.Edited August 1 by Ankush
This is no game for me  but I know what you mean.. I’m trying to gamify ou4 quit so we stay motivated but I thought the games section was for computer and other games.. not a quit motivation thread?
@Matt B If keeping the thread in the Quit Smoking Discussions works for you, it's fine.
    Welcome aboard @Matt B, You're gonna love this place.  Everywhere you find yourself in this forum is motivation, encouragement, support.  Make your pledge, educate yourself on this insidious addiction and day by day. You conquer it.
Welcome Matt and congratulations on taking back your life. We have lots of newbies here but they all have different quit dates and many are well past the first week.   2019 quitters have named themselves the Ash kickers. It's another way to be bonded with your fellow newbies. Here's the logo if you'd like it for your signature
    Welcome aboard Matt...  Congratulations on your decision to take back your life ....    Whatever works for you is good....never stick anything in your mouth and set fire to it ...works too....    You can do it !!!!
Congratulations on your quit and welcome to QTrain !    Please avail yourself to all the information, the support and the fun as well.  The games are here for diversion and also to get to know and laugh with fellow quitters.    You might like to start a blog to chart your journey to a nicotine free life.       In looking at your avatar...OLD HABITS/NEW HABITS ...I saw an immediate RED FLAG.I hope you understand this is way more than a habit, we are dealing with Nicotine Addiction.       Educate yourself about Addiction, this is one of the premier motivators.    With education and understanding the knowledge you will have a great chance of building a successful quit.      You may find this thread useful10 Ways To Effectively Use This Forum To Help Yourself Quit Smoking          Here are some materials you should make yourself familiar withVideos to watch as you prepare to quit smoking    and this    Starting Day One     Edited August 2 by Sazerac
    Matt welcome aboard.  Congrats on taking the decision to quit.  I really like your idea and in some ways wish there had something like this in my early days -- keep strong!!!!
Welcome Matt i’m Just over 2 weeks in my quit. You will love it here. A lot of great information and helpful people, who all want to see you succeed. Which in this day and age is amazing all by itself.
    This is the perfect spot for this thread @Matt B.       So the games thread here is not anything about computer games...it's just games you can play to help get past a prickly moment, they are more social interaction. Music threads are good too.   During my first week a customer in Sydney made a comment he had to call before I went on smoko...and I felt pretty stoked to tell him I'd quit...his advice, just worry about not smoking today, one day that's it. Only focus on the day. If ya into omens I quit just before an Ashes series, an still going strong so clearly Ashes season is a grouse time to quit.
    Jo  pardon my ignorance but what is ashes season? 
    I'll join you Matt.  Let's see who can last the longest!
    Are you on Sydney Australia or Sydney, Nova Scotia; Canada?
How's day 2 going @Matt B?
14 hours ago, Diane R said:             Jo  pardon my ignorance but what is ashes season?           The Ashes are a series a cricket test matches played between Australia and England. Cricket is like baseball, only requiring more skill, talent and stamina ....so the two countries play a best if 5 series, but each game takes up to 5 days and you only have 2 innings each...and the winner gets this charming little trophy....       Which is the holy grail of cricket..it's a little terracotta pot 11cm (um about 4-5") that holds the ashes of a burnt bail.
@Matt B, and @Damona,       How are you on day 2 ?      Here are some materials from our friend, Joel Spitzer for Day 2  Starting Day Two
6 minutes ago, Sazerac said:    @Matt B, and @Damona,                               How are you on day 2 ?                                      Here are some materials from our friend, Joel Spitzer for Day 2  Starting Day Two                                           I'm not done with day 1 yet...
    Hello Damona, thanks for checking in !  Congratulations on quitting smoking !       Please take advantage of this opportunity to educate yourself on nicotine addiction.    Knowledge is power !  Read EVERYTHING, watch all the vids.  You will build a successful quit.       I embedded a bunch of links earlier in this thread.  Have a look.   If you have any questions or concerns or just need encouragement please post.  We are looking out for you.       
@Ankush how is your new Seventh day ?  Congratulations on quitting smoking !
@Sazerac Seventh day going good as far as quitting smoking goes. It would have been 4 months today, had I not blown the quit last week. I really regret it because it's daunting to start from scratch again.Edited August 2 by Ankush
@Ankush Look for beauty,    Remember to breathe !   Nurture yourself.   Reward yourself for every crave you conquer.
@Sazerac Yup, did the nurturing with exercise and a heavy lunch
    Well done A !!!!    Don't look back....keep focused on  the, future ....guard this Quit with your life ....
Morning all you 7 day challenge people. Keep up the great job!
     @Damona, @Matt B and @Ankush       Here is a thread about what helped us during the first weekFirst Week, Nicotine Free        please add your tips and tricks
Hi All,     Thanks for your kind comments - Sadly I had a min-relapse - 1/2 smoke But I'm keen to get on top of this.    So here goes..  Day 1/7 - feeling quite good 7/10   Day 2&3 are always the hardest - so i'll try to check in a few times a day.     Best!
    Matt sorry about your relapse. You have to get  rid of all your cigarettes ashtray is anything that has to do with smoking so that you can be successful on this next quit. I changed the way I drink my coffee in the morning and each time I think about a smoke I tell myself I don’t smoke and I say it out loud. Sounds silly but it has helped. After all I’m going to have to re-condition my brain if I’m going to make this quit  stick.
    Hey Matt,sorry you relapsed. Have you seen our SOS forum? You post there anytime you feel yourself caving to a crave and members will give you that extra support you need to get past it. I used it a few times when I first quit and the support and encouragement was just what I needed to get past it and keep my quit. You can also do a pre response post to yourself.   You can do it and we'll support you as much as you need or want 
Thank you so much! I’m doing quite well today and I just finished a big gym workout. Tmrw I have gym and yoga.. I want to make myself super busy in the next few days so it’s a blur!   On the other hand I’m already 2 months into quitting alcohol with no sign of a relapse! I love green tea lol
    Yes keeping busy helps! 
@Matt B Keep busy, but try not to use any activity as a crutch for quitting smoking. This is because, in case you cannot perform a particular activity on a given day, you may start thinking of a smoke. Here's a video that may help:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tc2KF_d64SY     Edited August 3 by Ankush
Sydney Australia day 1 finished !! All your advice helped a lot.btw cigarettes cost aud $45 for a 25 pack here. I.e around usd 35..gulp
    Congratulations on your quit, @Matt B   You may have some gnarly moments but, nothing you can't live through.   Cigarettes KILL quitting does not.      In all your free time, switch up your ticker and educate yourself about nicotine addiction. You do know that it is NOT just a habit like your avatar seems to intimate, right ?     Remember to keep yourself hydrated, have fruit juice hand to keep blood sugar in check. and have a think about what our friend, @Sirius says,'Next time a craving plunks down on your face ask yourself, "What price you are willing to pay to own yourself?"    
    I'm sorry to hear about your relapse but I'm glad you have started your quit again, Matt.       Keep posting about what you are going through.  It really helps.
Thanks all! Day 2/7...  Will be mindful of the cravings for sure.. I try to count them and use a 3 minute timer on my watch if I’m really struggling
        Take each crave at a time and reward yourself for conquering that particular receptor in your brain.    This is what it is all about.   Wrenching one receptor at a time away from nicotine and replacing it with a suitable reward.    I used oxygen and looking at beauty as rewards that were always at hand.The Significance of Rewards
    Hey, @Matt B,   Some people can slide through the first week or two, no problem.    I wasn't one of them but, I accepted the fact that it was going to suck for a while and came to terms with my reality.      Our friend, Sarge,  says, "Embrace The Suck"    OK....  I could live with that, I could live through that...I was determined.   It was worth it to me to be free.   The discomfort (and that is ALL it is) wasn't going to thwart me, no how no way.        Power through, sleep through, play through, do anything but smoke.  You can do it.   
Day 2-5 is always tricky for me.... I'm heading out now and will come back home briefly to get ready for yoga etc.  Will check back in tonight - really appreciate your support team!!
@Matt B Carry on with your day as usual, it will help you to learn to go about your life without smoking. Every activity will be like a new smoke-free activity. Enjoy it.
    I found if I changed my morning rituals ,it helped...showered before I did anything ..to wake me up,ready to fight the craves ...before I would make coffee and go have a few fags
Day 2/7 done! About to sleep. C u tmrw
Day 3/7 underway... gotta stay strong and crush the craves
@Matt B grab some lifesavers or chuppa chups or chewy to get through the day.. it helps.
    Yes gud idea!! Gonna drink epic amounts of water also
    Matt, great idea on the water, cold juice can help too.  Also you  might want to try Jillar's Air Cigarette (cut straw to size of cigarette) and use that with breathing techniques -- it can really help it did for me!!!
    You're doing great Matt and yes, if the craves get too bad post an SOS or try my air cigarette. It worked so good for me at tricking my mind into thinking it was getting the real thing 
I think I mentioned before cigarettes cost usd35 for a 25pack where I live. I want to reward myself tonight at the end of day 3 with a small item. Any suggestions?
    Ok so maybe most of you are asleep. I’ll check later tonight     
    I’ve come up with a few craving crusher strategies. Hope to share them with you soo n!
    Hey @Matt B how ya travelling...so suggestions for a small reward..me I'd get coffee down Lygon St but I'm a Melbournian, ya know what we are like with coffee....how about gold class at village for being a week free...that's only a couple a packs...or daily, give back, make a donation to the salvos or Smith family or the PJclub or Canteen... Um...buy yaself an expensive steak for dinner instead of budget shit from Woolies.  A box of Vegemite shapes, nothing beats Vegemite shapes.
Thx - nice ideas. My gym has a great chef - they do full meals - will get steak there on thurs. Day 3 done! in bed and bout to crash
Congrats on being smokefree for 3 days. One day at a time you can do it!
On 8/2/2019 at 9:46 AM, Sazerac said:                @Damona, @Matt B and @Ankush                               Here is a thread about what helped us during the first week     First Week, Nicotine Free                               please add your tips and tricks
Day 4/7 starting
2 minutes ago, Matt B said:             Day 4/7 starting                You are doing great, Matt.  Take it one day at a time.  You can do this.
    Keep going Matt....your doing great !!!
    Woohoo almost half way done with hell week now Matt. Good job! 
    Thanks for all your support team! It really helps... 
    Going strong Matt!!!
Struggling a bit at work today.. lots of chaos at work today. Gotta hang in there and as soon as I get home I’ll have an early night to lock in day 4
Stay strong you can do it. There will always be stress in life. You have to remind yourself that cigarettes don’t help your,stress. It’s your habit to smoke when you are stressed. Say to yourself I don’t smoke. It helps me I say it out loud. I’m trying to retrain myself. I’ve give cigarettes enough of my time. Not anymore. And good job coming here to post. Edited August 5 by Diane R
                Here is the major stress factor in your life.
    You can do it Matt....were all behind you ...
    Another trigger defeated Matt, well done  
How do you determine your quit date?  I have always thought that the quit date is the date you smoke your last cigarette, even if you put it out at 11:59 p.m.  I notice that a lot of people use the next day as their quit date and it makes me curious.  So, what date do you use and why?
    I know seconds and minutes and hours really count in the beginning !    You have quit the moment you put out your last smoke.       I counted my first full day as my first day but,  my last smoke was late the night before.  This just felt comfortable and more convenient to me.            
@Damona I use the next day, simply because starting from the next day, there will be no more cigarettes. Irrespective of the time on a given day the last cigarette is smoked, that day is still a smoked day. Simply put, for me, the first day from when there is no smoking is the quit day.Edited August 2 by Ankush
I smoked my last cancer stick ,just before bed...so counted day 1 from the morning ...
Edited September 13 by Damona
    How are you feeling ?
    My quit date started the minute I put out my last cigarette. 
9 minutes ago, Sazerac said:                How are you feeling ?           As long as I force myself to relax, not too bad really.
    I also started the first day I did not have a cigarette.  That was the day after my last smoke.  
    My start date was the first day without a cigarette!!
5 hours ago, Damona said:               How do you determine your quit date?  I have always thought that the quit date is the date you smoke your last cigarette, even if you put it out at 11:59 p.m.  I notice that a lot of people use the next day as their quit date and it makes me curious.  So, what date do you use and why?               My quit date is March 9, 2016.  On March 8, 2016 I performed a ritual of sorts.  Went out on the back porch at 11:50 p.m. and smoked one.  At 11:58 I lit another and just before the clock hit midnight, I took one long last drag.  I guess it made sense to me at the time, but in hindsight it seems ridiculous.        My advice to anyone just starting the process would be: don't do what I did.  Don't get caught up in minutiae and don't perform cigarette based rituals right before quitting.  If you want to start counting the second you ash out the last one, do that.  If starting the count at the beginning of your first full-day without a cigarette feels better to you, do that.        Just remember not to put anything in your mouth and set it on fire.  Everything else is a minor detail.
I have always used the day I put out my last cigarette as my quit date. It was approx. 8:00 AM on a Sunday morning - my wake-up smoke. Put it out and never had another one. So to me, the day I made that conscious decision to smoke one then not smoke anymore is my actual quit date. As others have said though, in the grand scheme of things, it matters not the actual date you quit. It just matters that you DID quit and remain quit
I put my last cigarette out at about 11:58 or 11:59 AM on a Sunday morning.  I decided a couple of days prior that I would smoke my last cigarette right before noon that day.      I count that day (November 16) as my quit day but I can see the argument for saying I should have counted my first full day smoke free as my quit day.      It is a personal preference as long as you never take another puff.Edited August 2 by johnny5
Well for me I started taking Chantix. I didn’t pick a start date, I just let the Chantix start to work about 3 week after I started it I smoked 2  drags of a cigarette and put it out. I haven’t had one since. But I still thinking about smoking all the time. I tell myself out loud I don’t smoke! Now I’m to the point where I forget to take my Chantix. It does get easier with time. I will say I was keeping myself in withdrawals for the first few weeks. The only downside to the Chantix for me. You are going cold turkey so you won’t have that. But this is where this forum helps someone told me I was keeping myself in withdrawal. And I was sick for 3 weeks. So I just put that stick out and didn’t look back. Stay close to the forum. Everyone here is so  supportive. It really can make all the difference. One day at a time.
When I quit I smoked my last cigarette right after eating lunch around midday .  I didn’t start counting until the next day though, but I guess if I want to pad my “total days quit” number, that half day (0.5) could be rounded up to include one more day.          To be honest I’m not certain that the day in my ticker is THE date.  When I had made it a month without smoking and knew this was THE quit, I tried to nail down the date.  I knew it was the Memorial Day weekend just not sure if it was a Saturday or Sunday, so I’ll cal mine (current days) +/- 1.5        Seriously though just don’t smoke anymore.  When you reach one year and more, does it really matter in the grand scheme of things.                   Edited August 2 by Wayne045
    Quite a variety of answers.  Thanks everyone!  It's something I was curious about and enjoyed reading the replies.  Whatever works for each individual...it's all good.  I tend to do the ritual like Boo mentioned.  I'm not satisfied unless I get a good long drag for my last puff which seems so silly to the rational portion of my brain.
I smoked my last cigarette January 31st at about 11 pm. I had smoked quite heavy that day just to get rid of the pack  I wanted to start a fresh day without smoking, hence 1st feb was my preferred quit day.
4 hours ago, Damona said:                I'm not satisfied unless I get a good long drag for my last puff which seems so silly to the rational portion of my brain.             It is just Addiction which is never, ever rational.
G’day   I had a cig on the Friday night 9th oct 2015, nothing surprising about that, can’t remember what time.  I was on the champix and my day, was to be that next week.  i got up next morning and that’s when the magic happened. I got up and didn’t smoke. Not One. Was it the champix... who cares   0830 came around and I knew this was the day!   Hunted up all my cigs the ashtrays the butts the lot. Drowned them in the kitchen sink. Dumped the mess in the bin And took my sweetheart out to a movie.   She took 4 days to figure out I wasn’t smoking.     I keep going toward. It will be 4 years this October 10 at 0830. Couldn’t care less about that last cig. This was that moment that I quit. I refused to go back.    EVER
My quit date is 20th June 2012 even though I smoked that day. I quit suddenly in the middle of the day (around 3.30pm) without making any kind of a plan prior to that. So that is the day that I quit.
    How to clean your lungs.         http://lungswithoutsmoke.com/best-natural-ways-of-cleaning-your-lungs/
    There's a wealth of information available to us all when it comes to smoking and quitting. I'm glad you're looking into this kind of stuff. Every little bit helps you quit and stay quit. Knowledge is power!
    Interesting, I used or ate many of things listed on a regular basis -- wonder if had/has helped me in any way?
    here is another thread Foods for Healthy Lungs  andTomatoes May Restore Lung Damage
    Martin I can’t hurt. Lord knows our ancestors used all kinds of things to heal themselves.  I love tomatoes. I eat them a lot. 
Aww my poor lungs !!!!!.....I dread to think what they looked like ...after smoking 52 years ...    2 burnt kippers I imagine ...hopefully they have mended some over the years Smoke Free...
    I woke up this morning feeling pretty good!  I'm always grateful to God for another day.  But I was especially happy to see that Ms. @Linda Thomas has one year !!!! I truly am happy for her.  Way to go Ms. Linda!!WooWoo!!!.  So I thought that I might spread some cheer to all the non smokers out there and say HIP HIP HOORAY !!!!! We are on our WAY!!!!!!
    It is a big rush to celebrate with Linda, isn't it !    I also get a charge out of the NOPE thread, it is like holding hands around the world and strengthening our quits.      Thanks for sharing your positivity and building a beautiful quit, QueenB.  Glad you are here.
    Oh !!!!I agree....it's a brilliant day....  We are all proud of Linda.....  Every smoker can be where Linda is today ,just commit to NOPE ...
In all honesty, If we take a look back from where ever it was we started.   And see just how far we have come!!!  Whether its 1 day 1 week 1 month 1 year. You have to admit that it brings joy, confidence,    self respect, determination..... A whole new you!!!!  Fabulous YOU!!!
4 hours ago, QueenB said:               In all honesty, If we take a look back from where ever it was we started.                   And see just how far we have come!!!  Whether its 1 day 1 week 1 month 1 year. You have to admit that it brings joy, confidence,                    self respect, determination..... A whole new you!!!!  Fabulous YOU!!!                                                   Queen B, that is exactly how I felt. Once I got through the tough month, I could feel my quit grow daily. The further away from it I got, I knew that I never wanted to go back.  Looking forward, I could see a much happier, free life and a new me.  You go girl, you have got this quit won.  I am thrilled to be able to watch you grow throughout your journey!
    Three cheers for all us quitters!!!! Great post QueenB, glad you're feeling pretty darn good today   
    This seems fitting       
Nicotine stimulates the reward path in our brain    and by replenishing ourselves with nicotine, we were rewarded with Dopamine.    Many times a day we went from the panic of, 'I've gotta have a smoke' to 'Ahhh', the brief relief of satisfying addiction.   We were jerking our own chain every twenty minutes or so....for years.  When quitting nicotine, that dance of our reward system shuts down.    It's a shock and we miss the consistent rewarding rush of dopamine. Our brain doesn't understand where all the feel good stuff went so, it is essential to amplify rewards, to jump start our natural pathways for the release of Dopamine.  The physical act of rewarding ourselves is crucial for the brain to access Dopamine.   It took me a moment to wrap my head around this,The Physical Act of Rewarding Ourselves, Is Crucial For The Brain To Access Dopamine.    Our friend, bakon, is a big advocate of rewards, quite rightly, too.   Celebrate your first moments, days...your first weeks and months. The first year, the next...    This can take the form of exotic holidays,  paid with the ducats you were giving to Big Tobacco,   to simple gifts to yourself, a new book, a magazine, a film...  ooh ! plenty of excellent chocolate passed these lips   (dark chocolate, apple, almond, banana, strawberry, salmon, beet, watermelon and pumpkin seeds also stimulate Dopamine).     Choose activities that make you feel pampered like the perfect bath, an afternoon nap in freshly laundered sheets, a candle lit dinner.     Getting through difficulties and experiencing your triumphs are all opportunities to reward yourself.  Keep in mind, you are not spoiling yourself, you are re-training your brain to deliver dopamine as an honest reward.    Like quenching your thirst with a long tall cool glass of water.     Celebrate as the hours go by, while the body adjusts to the new normal.    A normal of being rewarded with dopamine but, naturally, of course, the way it was before we allowed nicotine to control our reward system.  I remember the first day that I forgot to think about smoking or not smoking,  wow ! this is what being nicotine free feels like ! I was so happy and celebrated by purchasing a small tree,   a Sweet Viburnum full of blossoms, a living reminder of my freedom.  My continuing reward is the luscious freedom I appreciate every single day.    I am in better health and free-er in spirit...  Tell me what your rewards have been, my nicotine free friends, what are your rewards now ?   S  p.s.  Along with Dopamine, we can hack into our other happy chemicals to improve the quality of our lives, in addition to aid in quitting smoking/nicotine.All are accessible simply through Meditation;  taking time for slow, measured breathing letting thoughts slip away.  Exercise and laughter induce the release of Endorphins, Oxytocin flows with orgasm, giving/receiving gifts.Serotonin gets you high when sitting in the sun, hanging with friends and by reflecting on your accomplishments.      I would also like to add a link from our friend, Joel SpitzerUsing Cigarettes As Rewards    Edited October 8 by Sazerac
My biggest reward..me and my two feet are still together..and I might add..Enjoying the new smoke free life..I'm doing more ,than I did 10 years ago...
I preach rewards for a simple reason. WHEN YOU QUIT it is hard work. Easy peasy might be a good saying but there is some put your head down, lean forward, and keep marching moments. So you deserve a reward for doing what's necessary.   Second reason is even former smokers have forgotten those moments are work. So nobody can feel what you're doing exactly. And so they say good job but did they buy you a cupcake and sing? No. Have to do it for yourself. Never thought about replacing dopamine but I guess that's true. Rewards give a reinforcement to the work.   NOPE helps do the work. A reward reinforced reason to do it.        And people just need a little help sometimesEdited December 19, 2018 by bakon
Rewards are not replacing dopamine, they are activating dopamine.  Replacing Nicotine with a 'feel good'  activity encourages the release of Dopamine. I only recently learned this and remembered how you always accentuate rewards, now there's even more reason. As far as 'feet apart'...I like soles together behind a neck or waist.  To be filed under 'Tantric Rewards'. :DPleasure is more pleasurable nicotine free, for sure.
My rewards were very important to me...it was my way of telling myself..how wonderful I was..And what a amazing thing i was achieving ..I was changing my whole life as I had known it...Spending my hard earned cash on me..Expensive, smelling candles...I wouldn't have been bothered while I smoked...
On 7/28/2016 at 6:34 AM, Sazerac said:  Nicotine stimulates the reward path in our brain                    and by replenishing ourselves with nicotine, we were rewarded with Dopamine.                                    Many times a day we went from the panic of,             'I've gotta have a smoke' to 'Ahhh', the brief relief of satisfying addiction.                                  We were jerking our own chain every twenty minutes or so....for years.                                  When quitting nicotine, that dance of our reward system shuts down.                     It's a shock and we miss the consistent rewarding rush of dopamine.                                 Our brain doesn't understand where all the feel good stuff went             so, it is essential to amplify rewards, to jump start our natural pathways for the release of Dopamine.                                 The physical act of rewarding ourselves is crucial for the brain to access Dopamine.                    It took me a moment to wrap my head around this,                The Physical Act of Rewarding Ourselves, Is Crucial For The Brain To Access Dopamine.                                   Our friend, bakon, is a big advocate of rewards, quite rightly, too.                    Celebrate your first moments, days...your first weeks and months. The first year, the next...                                                   This can take the form of exotic holidays,  paid with the ducats you were giving to Big Tobacco,                    to simple gifts to yourself, a new book, a magazine, a film...                                  ooh ! plenty of excellent chocolate passed these lips                                   (dark chocolate, apple, almond, banana, strawberry, salmon, beet, watermelon and pumpkin seeds also stimulate Dopamine).                                                    Choose activities that make you feel pampered like the perfect bath, an afternoon nap in freshly laundered sheets, a candle lit dinner.                                 Getting through difficulties and experiencing your triumphs are all opportunities to reward yourself.                   Keep in mind, you are not spoiling yourself, you are re-training your brain to deliver dopamine as an honest reward.                                    Like quenching your thirst with a long tall cool glass of water.                                                    Celebrate as the hours go by, while the body adjusts to the new normal.                 A normal of being rewarded with dopamine but, naturally, of course,                                 the way it was before we allowed nicotine to control our reward system.                                                 I remember the first day that I forgot to think about smoking or not smoking,                   wow ! this is what being nicotine free feels like !                                 I was so happy and celebrated by purchasing a small tree,                                   a Sweet Viburnum full of blossoms, a living reminder of my freedom.                                                 My continuing reward is the luscious freedom I appreciate every single day.                 I am in better health and free-er in spirit...                                  Tell me what your rewards have been, my nicotine free friends, what are your rewards now ?                                                  S                   p.s.  Along with Dopamine, we can hack into our other happy chemicals               to improve the quality of our lives, in addition to aid in quitting smoking/nicotine.All are accessible simply through Meditation;  taking time for slow, measured breathing letting thoughts slip away.                    Exercise and laughter induce the release of Endorphins,                 Oxytocin flows with orgasm, giving/receiving gifts.             Serotonin gets you high when sitting in the sun, hanging with friends and by reflecting on your accomplishments.                                                        I would like to include this link from our friend, Joel Spitzer             Using Cigarettes As Rewards     I am bumping this to remind us to retrain our addicted brains, otherwise we are highly susceptible to relapse.  Taking those few deep clean conscious breaths works wonders.             Edited October 8 by Sazerac
 :)
The picture of our receptors being pirated by nicotine.     These are the receptors of our reward responses that thankfully return to normal when we quit but, can be encouraged and hastened during the change by actively rewarding yourself.     Edited to find the photo and can't but, this may be helpful      Edited September 18 by Sazerac
Thank you for posting the picture's..........wow, I cannot believe my brain is still somewhat 'normal' LOL after 20+ year's of smoking.  Looking at these picture's and thinking of different scenarios: out w/friends, on a phone call, stressing out over my mother who has dementia and how many cigarettes I smoke.....so, so, so many cigarettes. OMG! This is a huge reality check! xo
I've had the joy of going to Tenerife each year, since not wasting thousands on somoking. The money not wasted has meant us Sifford's have had an absolute blast. I build up to it, and am excited every single day when I think I'm going back. It's like medication really...I can't put into words the thrill it gives be to be able to go once a year, to my second home. Had I still been smoking, not got my head down and worked through the discomfort, we wouldn't have had a holiday every year, no way. The added beauty is I also love the fact I'm not clock watching once in the airport..thinking can't have a smoke for the next six hours. The freedom of that is priceless. Reward yourself...treat yourself...relish on what you spend the money on instead of wasting it..on cancer sticks.
On 7/28/2016 at 6:34 AM, Sazerac said:  Nicotine stimulates the reward path in our brain            and by replenishing ourselves with nicotine, we were rewarded with Dopamine.            Many times a day we went from the panic of, 'I've gotta have a smoke' to 'Ahhh', the brief relief of satisfying addiction.                  We were jerking our own chain every twenty minutes or so....for years.                  When quitting nicotine, that dance of our reward system shuts down.             It's a shock and we miss the consistent rewarding rush of dopamine.         Our brain doesn't understand where all the feel good stuff went so, it is essential to amplify rewards, to jump start our natural pathways for the release of Dopamine.                 The physical act of rewarding ourselves is crucial for the brain to access Dopamine.            It took me a moment to wrap my head around this,The Physical Act of Rewarding Ourselves, Is Crucial For The Brain To Access Dopamine.                   Our friend, bakon, is a big advocate of rewards, quite rightly, too.            Celebrate your first moments, days...your first weeks and months. The first year, the next...                   This can take the form of exotic holidays,  paid with the ducats you were giving to Big Tobacco,            to simple gifts to yourself, a new book, a magazine, a film...          ooh ! plenty of excellent chocolate passed these lips           (dark chocolate, apple, almond, banana, strawberry, salmon, beet, watermelon and pumpkin seeds also stimulate Dopamine).                    Choose activities that make you feel pampered like the perfect bath, an afternoon nap in freshly laundered sheets, a candle lit dinner.                 Getting through difficulties and experiencing your triumphs are all opportunities to reward yourself.           Keep in mind, you are not spoiling yourself, you are re-training your brain to deliver dopamine as an honest reward.            Like quenching your thirst with a long tall cool glass of water.                    Celebrate as the hours go by, while the body adjusts to the new normal.         A normal of being rewarded with dopamine but, naturally, of course,         the way it was before we allowed nicotine to control our reward system.                 I remember the first day that I forgot to think about smoking or not smoking,           wow ! this is what being nicotine free feels like !         I was so happy and celebrated by purchasing a small tree,           a Sweet Viburnum full of blossoms, a living reminder of my freedom.                 My continuing reward is the luscious freedom I appreciate every single day.         I am in better health and free-er in spirit...          Tell me what your rewards have been, my nicotine free friends, what are your rewards now ?                  S           p.s.  Along with Dopamine, we can hack into our other happy chemicals to improve the quality of our lives, in addition to aid in quitting smoking/nicotine.All are accessible simply through Meditation;  taking time for slow, measured breathing letting thoughts slip away.          Exercise and laughter induce the release of Endorphins, Oxytocin flows with orgasm, giving/receiving gifts.Serotonin gets you high when sitting in the sun, hanging with friends and by reflecting on your accomplishments.                             I would like to include a link to our friend, Joel Spitzers, Using Cigarettes As Rewards            Bump for our fabulous Newbies, I am so happy y'all quit smoking.    Stay strong and breathe deep glorious breaths of Freedom    and Reward yourselves ! S                Edited October 8 by Sazerac
    bump.   Creating new rewards, true rewards for yourself is an essential part of recovering from nicotine addiction. You can also have some fun with rewards and be really kind to yourself. Rewards can be free...a bubble bath, an interesting walk, a nap...  or small purchases...you know what you would enjoy. My rewards got bigger the longer I stayed quit, the more ducats saved.       
    another bump after hearing about Lilly's Charm Bracelet in her blog.
    Her idea of the charm bracelet was fabulous  Anything you can use to encourage yourself to quit and stay quit is well worth what ever effort it requires!Your addiction will try it's best to defeat your efforts once you quit so you have to outsmart the addiction. It's totally possible using tools such as Lilly has done 
    Hip hooray! I love rewards! Daily/small task rewards=chocolates, hard candies, nice tea/coffee/beer     Monthly/anniversaries=nice dinner, haircut +style, new socks/undies,        Doesn't have to be something big every time, but always tell yourself "This is my reward for xxx" to really reinforce the good behavior association with the dopamine release.      Try new things! The new you might like new things!!     (It was mentioned above but I'll also throw out that sex is the best release of dopamine, oxytocin, and endorphins. And, like I said, try new things)            
Bump for Kate18     (I like recycling Sazerac's advise)
On 12/18/2018 at 10:28 AM, Paul723 said:                Bump for Kate18                                     (I like recycling Sazerac's advise)         Very thoughtful, Paul, thank you. Am enjoying reading these great posts.    Came online just now because I've been wrestling with a strong crave for the past 30 minutes.       Went through H.A.L.T., but not hungry, angry, lonesome, or tired. I feel cranky and whiny and longing for a smoke. I can feel the wanting of it in my throat. (The addict emoting.) You bumped this yesterday morning, Paul  (my time, anyway), and here it is at the moment I need the right thing to explain this non-HALT craving and what to do to get through it.      Going to the grocery store now, in search of something dopaminergic.  It'll probably be something from the pastry family. Or ice cream. I'll save getting both for surviving a bigger craving.
On 7/28/2016 at 6:34 AM, Sazerac said:  Nicotine stimulates the reward path in our brain            and by replenishing ourselves with nicotine, we were rewarded with Dopamine.            Many times a day we went from the panic of, 'I've gotta have a smoke' to 'Ahhh', the brief relief of satisfying addiction.                  We were jerking our own chain every twenty minutes or so....for years.                  When quitting nicotine, that dance of our reward system shuts down.             It's a shock and we miss the consistent rewarding rush of dopamine.         Our brain doesn't understand where all the feel good stuff went so, it is essential to amplify rewards, to jump start our natural pathways for the release of Dopamine.                 The physical act of rewarding ourselves is crucial for the brain to access Dopamine.            It took me a moment to wrap my head around this,The Physical Act of Rewarding Ourselves, Is Crucial For The Brain To Access Dopamine.                   Our friend, bakon, is a big advocate of rewards, quite rightly, too.            Celebrate your first moments, days...your first weeks and months. The first year, the next...                   This can take the form of exotic holidays,  paid with the ducats you were giving to Big Tobacco,            to simple gifts to yourself, a new book, a magazine, a film...          ooh ! plenty of excellent chocolate passed these lips           (dark chocolate, apple, almond, banana, strawberry, salmon, beet, watermelon and pumpkin seeds also stimulate Dopamine).                    Choose activities that make you feel pampered like the perfect bath, an afternoon nap in freshly laundered sheets, a candle lit dinner.                 Getting through difficulties and experiencing your triumphs are all opportunities to reward yourself.           Keep in mind, you are not spoiling yourself, you are re-training your brain to deliver dopamine as an honest reward.            Like quenching your thirst with a long tall cool glass of water.                    Celebrate as the hours go by, while the body adjusts to the new normal.         A normal of being rewarded with dopamine but, naturally, of course,         the way it was before we allowed nicotine to control our reward system.                 I remember the first day that I forgot to think about smoking or not smoking,           wow ! this is what being nicotine free feels like !         I was so happy and celebrated by purchasing a small tree,           a Sweet Viburnum full of blossoms, a living reminder of my freedom.                 My continuing reward is the luscious freedom I appreciate every single day.         I am in better health and free-er in spirit...          Tell me what your rewards have been, my nicotine free friends, what are your rewards now ?                  S           p.s.  Along with Dopamine, we can hack into our other happy chemicals to improve the quality of our lives, in addition to aid in quitting smoking/nicotine.All are accessible simply through Meditation;  taking time for slow, measured breathing letting thoughts slip away.          Exercise and laughter induce the release of Endorphins, Oxytocin flows with orgasm, giving/receiving gifts.Serotonin gets you high when sitting in the sun, hanging with friends and by reflecting on your accomplishments.                                                 I would like to include a link from our friend, Joel Spitzer        Using Cigarettes As Rewards     Bump for newbies.   Rewards are an essential component of a successful quit.    The sooner you train your brain to accept TRUE rewards and reject poisonous addiction the better you will feel.              Edited October 8 by Sazerac
    Yep
I still struggle with finding rewards. I'm very sedentary due to a serious knee injury/impending surgery. I've given up sweets, my usual reward, because losing weight is an emergency for me due to my knee problems. Its hard for me to get into and out of the bathtub but I'll try tonight because I love baths and I have some delicious smelling bubble bath. I do have two books going and I could do some stepwork (12 step program) but that doesn't really feel like a reward lol. I asked for suggestions for a sedentary non smoker but I can't find the thread so if you don't mind, throw out anything you can think of. What did you reward yourself with?Edited July 24 by MichelleDoesntSmokeAnymoreFixed typo
    Do you like music?  I listened to the same song everyday for the first month of quitting on my drive to work.  You could pick a theme song to inspire you and reward yourself that way.
Oh if you like sweets and can do  Splenda whenever I diet I get favored coffee add a litttle half and half and Splenda. It’s like a  dessert. Target has some wonderful favors. My 10 year old grandson said one day grandma I smell chocolate what are you baking. It was my coffee. I felt like I was being  naughty but I wasn’t. I still keep it here.
    I do. I Liisten to music every day. I'll try to identify a song that has "Quit Smoking" energy in it. Great suggestion, thanks!
    I listen to BUTT KICKING music so when I'm thinking about those horrible smokes!!! BAM BAM BAM  head banging for sure ….. Kick that craving right in the throat!!!! Ohhhhh wait, we're talking about REWARDS.  LOLOLO yeaaahhhh Um I just go by something small lipstick,  magazine, nothing of any importance just because I can!!! LOVE IT    It's the mood I'm in......I'm allowed LOL
    I gave myself frequent rewards like a dinner at a nice restaurant or new sneakers.  After some time and significant savings I'd go for bigger stuff like a new sofa or new truck.  But, by far, the best reward came from my body itself.  I went from a tired couch potato to an extremely active hiker and backpacker.  Here's a picture of the reward I'm giving myself very soon.  Two weeks of backpacking the John Muir Trail.         
    BKP looks beautiful! Enjoy 
Hello QTrain,    I was looking last night for information on No Man's Land to help someone,  I wasn't clear on when this happens for some people and thought tosome anecdotal evidence might be useful.Please, those of you who had this experience, would you add questions and answer away ?Did you experience No Man's Land ? How far along in your Quit were you ?How did it feel ?How long did  it last ?What tools helped you through ?What did you learn ?    7/31/19I have since learned that once the bright and shiny has worn off a quit, when quitting it is no longer a minute by minute concern, smokey thoughts can rumble up in a powerful way.  This can happen anytime, of course but, they may take us by surprise when we are feeling confident and complacent in our quit.We are dealing with addiction.  Vigilance must be maintained.  Protect your quit.                             Edited July 31 by Sazerac
I'm not sure if I ever ventured into no-mans-land per se, but I did struggle at 3 and 6 months, which could have turned into NML if I hadn't done something about it. I just started to feel a little lost, and a little complacent.. And AS SOON as I started feeling like that, I posted about it... And my quit smoking family lent me their strength to get through.   It lasted a couple of days on each occasion, and I learnt that accountability is extremely important, for me at least.  I would even go on record to say that without my non-smoking family, I would have gone back to smoking a long time ago. So, I'm not really sure if that was NML, or maybe pre-NML, but I hope what I said helps someone.
No Mans Land... hmmm....a bit of a construct. There comes a time when quitting is not new, its not exciting. Nobody is saying WOW! anymore. In short, life goes back to being life.  At times - I was bored. I wanted to smoke. Junkie thinking creeps in....Ahhhhh! It's no mans land! No it aint. It's life.  There's a danger in ascribing a name or a timeline to it. Self-fulfilling prophesy and all that.. Action is right - when stuff feels a bit weird - post. That's what the forum is here for.
I've just gone thru NML.. (well at least i think I'm coming out on the other side).. for me it was that at the start of my quit, I was so excited and proud of myself, every day was such a big deal for me.. I had set a date about 3 months out to let my family know I had been quit, so I had that to hang on to an look fwd to.. that day came an went (great day by the way :) ) and then it just kind of got... don't know.. like those who where so happy for me when they found out i quit were just kind of "you quit-good-on with life"..they didn't seem to understand it was still a daily thing for me "NOPE just for today"  and it felt like all the "new" had gone out of my quit...and my enthusiasm to keep on-staying quit was die'n out... the truth is I didn't know I was in so much trouble until someone else posted something that hit a cord with me- how i was feeling- I commented on that and before I knew it my QT family was "riding in to the rescue"... if not for the "family" here, I'm pretty sure I would have gone back to smoking,... ....but see? thats why it's sooooooo important to post how you feel... you may never know who you help.... or how what  say will alert others here that you're in trouble - and "can't see the forest for the trees" like what happened with me.. and they "swoop in" to help... so, my advice.. be aware it can happen.. an if "the family" picks up on something you said in a post and say you might need an extra helping hand -TAKE IT- open up-talk-post- don't be like me and try to go it alone.. I forgot I was here for the love and support the lovely folks here have to offer.. I didn't want to admit I was have'n a hard time and it almost cost me my quit at just before 6 mo. ...
S, this post is a brilliant idea! It will be so helpful to refer to when going through those rough times. Keep posting your experiences here all you wonderful non-smokers :) Sandy
At the risk of angering the easy peasy brigade :) I totally think I went through this. But I agree it's just giving it a name, in other words it's phases of not smoking. 6 weeks - went bat shizzle, totally prompted by forever fear! Posted, big save, phew! Month 2 - this foot that foot. All felt a bit ploddy, no excitement, no real drama. Missed my brass band and wondered where they had trailed off too when I still thought about smoking all the time. Verbally threatened Joel on the laptop many times with his (in my mind at the time) divvy assessment of two smoking thoughts per day. Pfft.. classic over achieving yet again by me!! Or dramatic, could be either. I was not comfortably happy but I was not smoking. Month 3 - Oh how I hated thee. wanna smoke, don't smoke, wanna smoke, don't smoke - WANNA - DONT DO IT...went on for a month for me because I refused to acknowledge it. Made my quit stronger though! Never felt the need to SOS, knew I wouldn't smoke, got real annoyed my own brain was tryna catch me out - what's that about?! I call it the rinse and repeat month now, seems to be common.  Month 4 was bliss :)  All peace and flower power of quitting, sooo lovely. Month 5 was a bundle of stress. But life is pretty tough month 5, so life or quitting...think that one was life tbh. Lots of "previously I would smoke here" thoughts but nothing more sinister then that.  Month 6 where I am now, seems calmer but only a week in lol. I do have thoughts of smoking, it seems the quicker I dismiss them as not a possibility (smoking is not o the table) then I can move on. Just occasionaly the thought lingers and I have to mentally bop myself over the head :)  I think the trick is to post and the guys are right about that. Especially month 2 and 3 I used to really over think what I could post about, just to post and get some feedback. In the same time period I started to exercise, somewhat unhappily and prompted mainly by weight gain (damn you peanuts). But actually, that was a major win, exercise I found not only dismissed the thoughts, I didn't think about smoking during and it gave me some form of happy vibe that I had missed a lot. Maybe an endorphin thing??  All of the above just made me hold tighter to my quit. Sometime in that time frame I posted something to the effect of, I know my quit is safe because I'm never going to be able to do week 1 or some of these days again. I held to that. No matter how much it sucked, if I just held on I would never have to face that day, that trigger, that time again!  x
I didnt experience no mans land but I did set myself up for a difficult no womans minefield in my quit because when I quit before I lasted exactly 6 months so my goal this time was to get past 6 months after the 6 months quit the buzz was no longer there and I can totally sympathise with what Lace said above and then life got stressful and it was a struggle to hold on and then my whole life changed and the only thing that would have been familiar was a smoke my mindset and the board saved me, posting, reaching out continuing to trust what others say and holding the hell on for dear life, excepting a hug and a kick up the butt and then move on my goal now is to take things a day at a time, stress will come and go in life roll with the punches tommorow is a new day and smoking will not change a darn thing and if I get them thoughts I look at the other areas in my life that are bringing the thoughts up and deal with that   if you are in no mans land - its time to find a new goal or new hobby or new buzz if you are struggling emotionally then please reach out we are all here with one goal and thats to quit for the rest of our lives, whatever it takes
This quit for me hasn't been easy peasy  ,I kicked and screamed my way through the early months....I gripped on  to the board with my finger nails diggin.....No mans land.....if I smoked ,I'm sure my future would have been ....a land for no man.....
Pretty much same here. I also dumped my arsehole boyfriend at the same time so I'm not sure I'm 'normal'.  I had bad days, still do, feel down, depressed, desperate - lots and lots of crying, lots of seeing my mum for hugs The worst part was when I found out I was dating a married man and just felt stupid and used and desperately wanted to curl up into a ball and smoke packet after packet I guess punishing myself for being stupid. I didn't smoke. I cried instead. And hugged friends and my mum for all the hugs they could give. I'm still not smoking. And still not being beaten up on a regular basis. Its pretty amazing really.
Did you experience No Man's Land ? YesHow far along in your Quit were you ? Right around 6 MonthsHow did it feel ? It sucked ass...  it was nicotenes last ditch effort...and it was a good effort.How long did  it last ? I would say a couple of weeksWhat tools helped you through ?  I had a hard(ish) quit and there was no way in hell that I was going to quit quitting at this point...kept fightingWhat did you learn ?  Always stay on my toes and never look back.
Yes, No Man's Land is when all the shiny new is gone off the quit...and it becomes just hard work.  I found this post online here in someone's quit smoking journal, and I think it describes it very well...  No Man's Land. Repost for jhhawaii                               By tahoehal  on May 13 2008 at 5:54 pm  77, Male                                Las Vegas                               NV, United States                               Member Since: September 01 2004 « Previous Entry  Next Entry »                                                              I seldom start a post, unless it is to honor someone's anniversary. But I feel compelled to share something that I seem to be sharing a lot of lately... and that is my thoughts on 'No Man's Land'. No Man's Land is a dangerous and scary place... and it is a lonely time during a quit.                                 I call No Man's Land that period of time between about 1 month and 3 or 4 months into your quit, or about the time from the end of your first month.. This is a time when many people slip and go into a full relapse and have to start over... if they can start over, that is. I have some observations that may help some of you who are literally hanging on by your fingernails... or who may find yourself there tomorrow.                                    The first month is an exhausting but exhilirating experience... you are locked in nearly daily struggles and you get the satisfaction of successfully beating your addiction that day. You go to bed a WINNER each night (as Troutnut would say), and you are justifiably proud of yourself. Your friends and family are also supportive as they see you struggling each day to maintain your quit. And you are being constantly supported here, whether or not you post... just being here is good for your quit. And so, the battles are won and it actually becomes easier and the battles occur less often as you finish 30 days or so.                                 Around 60 days, you're starting to have some really good days, with very few craves and some nice insights about yourself... but then again, you still have some bad days. Those bad days can really be depressing... you begin to wonder if you're ever gonna be able to relax. Your junkie is whispering to you, telling you that 'just one' won't hurt. You've conquered your daily triggers, but now you start trippiing over the occasional ones... a death in the family, unexpectedly bad news, money problems, health problems, going on a long car ride, a trip to the bar, or whatever. You have a strong crave and you begin to doubt your ability to keep your quit.                                    In addition, the 3D support that you used to get is pretty much gone... non-smokers figure you should be 'over it' by now, smokers don't like to hang around you much because they feel guilty and addicted (remember that feeling?), and people who have quit may not remember just how much love and support you need well into the first few months. They all think you should be 'over it', you think you should be 'over it'... and the temptation is to have 'just one' to see if you ARE over it.                                    But of course you're not over it, are you? That 'just one' whisper becomes much much louder and becomes 'just one more'... and each time you give in to that whisper, the craves come harder and sooner. The one way to guarantee that your craves will never go away is to light up, to slide that old cigarette needle into your arm and shoot up. Those craves will be back and keep coming back. But if you protect your quit, your craves will eventually weaken and become even fewer and farther between.                                    As you get to around 100 days or so (some will be a bit longer)... you will begin to really get a healthy perspective on your addiction. You will see the huge role that smoking played in your life, you will see clearly what that addiction really cost you. And you will understand that it was a very high price to pay... the loss of your confidence, your emotions, your self-control... your SELF. All enslaved to your addiction.                                 And you will begin to see that you can look forward to a non-smoking future without romanticizing your addiction. You see it clearly for the life-stealing evil it was... and is. You see a much different future for yourself than your past has been. And it no longer scares the crap out of you to think that you are done smoking... in fact, you embrace that thought with joy every day.                                 But you have to get out of No Man's Land first. How can you help yourself? And how can those of us who have been through it help you?                                   First of all, you need to understand that you aren't alone. If you haven't already done so, make a pinky-finger promise with 2 or 3 good quitbuds and exchange phone numbers with them. Promise to call them if you're ever in trouble, and make them promise the same. These are your 'life and death' quitbuddies... you are literally trusting each other with your lives. Then call them... often. Just to see how they are doing, and to tell them you're doing well too. Be totally honest with them, this is life and death.                                 Second, understand that you're going to have some unexpectedly bad days... but they are going to be further apart. Shrug them off, laugh your way through them, call your quitbuddies... whatever it takes to get through them without smoking. Some battles will be easy, some will be hard. Come here and post, send qmail, exercise, learn to cook, take up a new hobby. Whatever it takes, keep going to bed a WINNER each night.                                   Third, ask some of the older qsters to keep an eye on you... to contact you to see how you're doing. I have been asked to do that for several of you recently and I am happy to do that, as I am sure that others are too. We know that you just need to hold on a little bit longer and change your focus just a little to make that breakthrough. And then you will OWN your quit, and it will be a very comfortable thing.                                   Last, take a deep and honest look at your past life... your life as a smoker and compare it to what your life is like now... and what it will be like in the future. You have to develop that vision of your future, of the person that you are going to BECOME now that you have freed yourself. You have to believe in yourself. You have to love yourself enough to deny yourself your addiction.                                    No Man's Land doesn't have to be so lonely and scary and dangerous. You need some company and some courage and some faith in yourself. And when you emerge from it, you will not be the same person that entered it.                                    Never never never question your decision to quit! This is the most loving thing that you will ever do for yourself. A few days of discomfort in exchange for a lifetime of freedom. You will never find another deal like it.                                   Protect your quit. Don't smoke, no matter what.                                 Hal 08-20-2004                                  A puff is too much, a thousand cartons are not enough.
It's when you need to grab a wrench and make sure those training wheels are on tight. .... Potholes ahead.
So-called "No Man's Land" is an imaginary, self-fulfilling, Land Of Make Believe. It is superstitious Woo-Woo of the highest order. If you do not want to experience No Man's Land, you do not have to.   Easy Peasy
I remember when the quit lost its excitement. I could no longer float around being proud of myself for not smoking. It was old news now and I needed to get a life. It was a sad feeling, but like everything else it was part of the process. A yucky place to be, put your foot on the gas pedal and get out of there.
So-called "No Man's Land" is an imaginary, self-fulfilling, Land Of Make Believe. It is superstitious Woo-Woo of the highest order. If you do not want to experience No Man's Land, you do not have to.   Easy Peasy Don't believe the hype... everyone's quit is different.
Uh O...Sarge is back.  Ok.. give it to me.....
No man's land, I heard of it but never been there! I think I saw the exit for it off the highway once but never stopped, too much going on! My quit never lost its excitement for me because of Tracey, this place, and some other things! If you do end up there remember not to spend too much time there because, You are starting your new life as a non smoker,  so you will be making some new friends,  will be going to some new places,  have new things to try and do, and new experiences!!!!
It is what is. Nothing more nothing less. Just keep NOPEING. Keep moving forward, it does get better. I promise.  :)
I have never been 'there' either, only heard about it. Today,  I have learned a lot about people's experience around a certain time in a quit.This is important to me and I love the resource of human experience, QTrain provides.We all bring something to the table,something that may resonate with another quitter and help them in some way.Thank you QTrain.
Sarge.....WooWoo is actually an alcoholic drink which makes you as the name suggests go Woowoo :D I feel myself I hit upon no mans land around firstly the 3 month mark, I felt strange, alienated, did not know where I was heading, what I wanted, I could never put my finger on anything, but knew something was amiss, felt like I was wading through thick mud and staring through fog, some of us quitter really believe in no-man's land and some of don't which is what makes us all unique and individual in our own right.  The next time I hit no man's land was at the end of the 6 months and again it lasted approximately a month, but during the month I became complacent and began to romance the though of a cigarette again, and yes I relapsed, will I hit no man's land again this time around, who knows, but if I do I certainly know how to deal with it xxx
Sarge.....WooWoo is actually an alcoholic drink which makes you as the name suggests go Woowoo :D This is the Woo-Woo to which Sarge refers.    Easy Peasy
Not sure about no man's land but I have had periods of cravings that came after long periods of no cravings. There was a period right after six months when it was tough because I wanted very badly to be a" social smoker."  Now by reading here and knowing about the concept of No Man's Land, I knew that cravings come and go, and if I embraced the suck, the period would pass.  Lately, Thank God, I have been free. 
Isn't that the beauty of the QT. Everyone has had a different quit and can share that experience freely.  I, like Chrispy, had a hell of a quit in the beginning and now at this point (8 months in) if thoughts or "craves" try to creep in I just think about how hard it was. Never. again. I pride myself on being a smart girl... how incredibly stupid would I have to be to ever smoke again.
DING DING DING  New visitor to NML WTF
Buckle down my friend. Breathe through. Keep to the boards. Eat. It will go away soon. I was a mean mean person for awhile 
NML feels sucky but is a really crucial part of the quit.  It actually feels like month 3 was probably the "cement it in"month, all those rinse and repeat thoughts are your junkie DYING off, although I appreciate it feel different.  It's not though and take it from one who trudged wearily too, it is your junkie brain in a go big or go home call back...do not listen!!  Message people, post tripe, hit up the swear thread, stay in touch here and we can keep your sparkle alive. I always tried to remember two things. 1. After a hard day, an easy, or even a few easy days would come. 2.That a lot of people struggled in this time frame, but had later happy quits so it has to end right! I promise you it's worth it. And keep reality about you, it's just thoughts, nothing like the early days, just lots of thoughts. How many dumb things have we done by thinking about them...probably loads :)  Don't let the thoughts take hold is all. x
I don't really believe in 'self fulfilling prophecies'especially in regards to 'no man's land'.Some folks hit a bump in the road after the shine of the quit has worn off.They are not alone.N O P E   N O P E  N O P E  and NOPE.
Another pot hole on the freedom road.   Stay focused and remain committed. The transition between smoking and not smoking can sometimes require sayinggoodbye, at least temporarily, to our smoking buddies. Feelings of isolation and loneliness can happen.   Recognize it if and when it happens and make sure you have the friends you need near at hand.
    bump
    bump and HERE is a great post Nancy found 
Great post and very interesting....another post coming at a time when needed. No Man's Land....I can say for sure been there or still there or Post Acute Withdraw..which ever freakin one you want to call it. Hit me a month or so ago. Depression anxiety ..all that crap but not as bad as the first time around when I first quit. I don't know how the brain works or when it just says hey guess what I am going to freak out for a while get you back on the right path then leave you alone so you can get shit straight again. I know one thing for sure I am much better and does it really ever go away. I really don't think so it's just another thing in life you learn to deal with over time and before you know it your not thinking junkie thinking. All I know for sure is that one day I think you just have had enough and it's time to move on and your brain says okay your right now lets get on with it. I don't know what happened to me but rest assure I will never forget it or get over confident again. I really do think it's the brain playing tricks doing a last ditch effort to get you to light up again. I read articles where ppl have this the rest of their lives. Well if thats the case then so be it. Just flare ups once and a while for a month or so then they go away. I came to the choice of hey why not. I have many other things to deal with in life what's one more. I will admit it can be very stressful at times but I have learned to accept it as a friend coming. You can't deny it so accept it and just say.."hey your back again,how long you going stick around this time"? Out smart yourself takes a bit of practice , which I am still working on but it helps. Anyway keep the quit..YOU CAN DO IT      Edited March 23, 2018 by stzr500
On 3/23/2018 at 10:13 AM, Sazerac said:             bump and HERE is a great post Nancy found               When the new and shiny has worn off is the time be extra vigilant and stay committed to NOPE.
On 9/17/2014 at 5:16 AM, Sazerac said:              Did﻿ you experience﻿ No Man's Land ?                                        How far along in your Quit were you ?                                                           How did it feel ?﻿                                                  How long did  it last ?                                                         What tools helped you through ?﻿                                                    What did you learn ?﻿                       Yes, around the 4-5 month mark. I had mentioned to my family of smokers that it was my quitiversary and my sister responded, "We knowwww you tell us all the time."     Shot to the heart. I was confused that they had already stopped supporting me. But, now I understand that it's their own addiction that keeps them from being happy for me. What helped was being a part of a community of quitters that would celebrate with me because they truly understood! Refreshing! I went thru alot of personal stuff early in my quit. Stuff that could have broke a weak person, but during that time I learned that I'm strong.
    bump....
On 10/18/2018 at 2:19 PM, Sazerac said:                                 When the new and shiny has worn off                 is the time be extra vigilant and stay committed to NOPE.                                   and HERE is a great post Nancy found.
(bump)   During the first year of your quit, prepare yourself with distractions, pleasures and rewards for any craves/triggers that seem to come out of nowhere.  Do not let them catch you unawares or find you cocky and careless.     It takes vigilance to deal with nicotine addiction, no kidding.You really have to be on point, specially the first year.    However, it isn't all 'fight or flight'.There will be days/weeks/months of just living freeand then some folks will have a doozie of a trigger.I had a big gnarly one at 10 months.  I came here and received incredible support. I wasn't going to smoke and thankfully, it passed. It was the last serious hurdle for me.     Remember, you are stronger and smarter than any trigger/craveand this is another opportunity to really reward yourself.Do not be shy with rewards ! They are an important part of the process.Put the word, 'Lavish', to the forefront of your vocabulary.  The Significance of Rewards         Edited February 14 by Sazerac
    bump
On 9/17/2014 at 5:16 AM, Sazerac said:  Hello QTrain,                   I was looking last night for information on No Man's Land to help someone,  I wasn't clear on when this happens for some people and thought tosome anecdotal evidence might be useful.Please, those of you who had this experience, would you add questions and answer away ?Did you experience No Man's Land ? How far along in your Quit were you ?How did it feel ?How long did  it last ?What tools helped you through ?What did you learn ?                    7/31/19I have since learned that once the bright and shiny has worn off a quit, when quitting it is no longer a minute by minute concern, smokey thoughts can rumble up in a powerful way.  This can happen anytime, of course but, they may take us by surprise when we are feeling confident and complacent in our quit.We are dealing with addiction.  Vigilance must be maintained.  Protect your quit.                                                                                                                                             bump
I found this online, here. A message from your body. (Repost)  By tahoehal  on November 03 2007 at 4:39 pm   Insert your own name .........and days of being smoke free x.Dear ..........It has been x days since you have quit smoking. You probably don't recognize me since you have been real busy for about x years. I am your body and I wanted to have a conversation with you.There are some things I need to tell you and share with you. You may need them now that you are recovering and I for the first time can express them.I am your lungs, your heart, your eyes, your liver, your blood, your skin and your mind.For x years, ......., you have been smoking and I have been unable to talk to you. It's not that there were times when I did not try, because I did.I sent you all sorts of signals to let you know I wanted to talk to you and you were not able to hear me. You passed it off as a morning cough or dizziness and whatever you were doing for all those years was too strong for me to fight.I have been waiting for this conversation with you for years.I must first tell you that we don't miss the smoke you filled us with.There were days when you were out, having a good time in the summer sun and I was too.I like the warm air and I even like the sun. But, ........, even on those wonderful days you would take the time to fill my lungs with smoke, my blood with carbon monoxide and my brain with nicotine. Every time I thought things were getting better and I was ready to talk to you there would be a burst of all these chemicals and I had to spend all of my energy, and YOUR energy, ......., on trying to keep you alive.I think you get the point now and I don't want to sound critical although I may have come off that way. What I really need to tell you is that for the past x days I have been working hard with the rest of your body ,to heal from a lot of years of neglect.I guess I want to say THANK YOU. Thank you, ......., for having the courage and the strength to quit smoking.If you have ever done anything right for me, by not smoking you have given me a new life. I need to tell you that it will take time for me to heal. You know how long you smoked, ........ It will take a bit of time to work with the lungs and the brain and the heart but IT WILL HAPPEN. Every cell in your body congratulates you... ....I need to warn you about something.One of the drugs that the brain thought it liked was Nicotine. That's a bad drug. It fooled me into thinking that I needed it.I never picked up a cigarette in my life and you made me addicted to Nicotine. Hey, I know it was not your fault! But there will be some difficulty the next few days and months. I, too, became addicted to that drug and it will take some time before I get rid of that. But I have a promise that I want to give you now that I can talk to you. If you promise to not smoke and to give this your very best shot, and I know how hard it is for you, I will reward you with more than great health, ........... And in time you will not only feel better but I will give you something that you thought you lost a long time ago.Remember your self-esteem and your image?Well I know who you are and I want you to know that I LOVE YOU. In time you will feel better and be so proud of what you accomplished-This I promise you.By the way!In this process of getting better we will be doing a lot of work inside.So please feed me and water me like you would if you were taking care of a beautiful Rose.It's time that you started to look after yourself with love, understanding and compassion as well; we like that too.Everything you give to me during this process I will reward you with tenfold. I believe in you, .......I AM YOU. I KNOW you can do this. I don't want to have to wait another x years to have this conversation with you. Know that I love you and know that it is unconditional. It seem at times like I am working against you but know that I am working with you, .........., to heal US.Just for Today, ......., please do not smoke. Thank you for listening to me. I love you!Sincerely,Your lungs, heart, liver, blood, mind and skin and every living cell in you.
Nancy....that was brilliant.....great post....
Thanks Nancy, great post!
This is really moving. Thank you Nancy
Great post!  :D
Thank you for posting that Nancy. :victory:
That was great. Thank you Nancy. 
Nice
Very cool
my body asks for me to touch it inappropriately.   I ignore it mostly for fear of blindness, but my glasses are so thick now I kant se what I tipe
    Bump.  
    Bump
    How are you both getting along  !!!!......
Thanks for asking Doreen.  Actually, I was doing well.  Then I ran into a problem, well not really, but it seemed like one from my junkie perspective.  I completed two days smoke free.  Then I had to get together with family.  It was something that came up spontaneously and I didn't have a good excuse to get out of it.  I was worried that I was going to be crabby with it being day 3 and I caved.  So, I am starting again.  I don't have to go anywhere for the next few days so I really have no excuse.  Also, I think I need to stay on the board for these first few difficult days instead of keeping to myself.Edited May 3 by Mona
    Hey Mona, glad you're back and have quit again. The first month is by far the hardest. But to insure a solid quit we recommend taking the One Year Pledge. It's a commitment to the board that you'll stay close for the next year to  help you past all the seasons and occasions that come up in a year, like family gatherings.  I was glued to the board my whole first year and it really helped get me through it.
    Never give up ..giving up ....  When the urge to smoke comes ...you have to fight through it ,with all you have ...each time you fight the monster and win ,he gets weaker ..
    I still haven't smoked.          
    Well done Lilly ....your doin great !!!!
    I'm still not sure how I will be when the patches go. I've quit enough times to know they are doing the work.       Thanks for checking in though Doreen x
20 hours ago, Lilly said:               I'm still not sure how I will be when the patches go. I've quit enough times to know they are doing the work.                                       Thanks for checking in though Doreen x          I think you're giving more credit to the patches than they deserve.  You are doing most of the work.  The patches are just helping you out a little...
On 5/3/2019 at 1:31 AM, Lilly said:             I'm still not sure how I will be when the patches go. I've quit enough times to know they are doing the work.                                       Thanks for checking in though Doreen x              Nope.  You're doing all the work, Lily. Great job.
    Hows it going @Lilly and @Damona? Long time since we've heard from you both
Hi Ankush.  Going through a lot of stress right now but have quit again.  Almost have 1 day.
On 7/27/2019 at 6:21 AM, Ankush said:               Hows it going @Lilly and @Damona? Long time since we've heard from you both         Hi Ankush.  Going through a lot of stress right now but have quit again.  Almost have 1 day now.
    Smoking and feeding your addiction only adds to whatever stress you are going through.  I hope you honor yourself and a commitment to NOPE.  It is the way to a successful quit.     
@Damona Stress can be a very powerful negative thing, there's no denying that. In fact, it can be the most powerful trigger for ex-smokers to go back to smoking, but that's just my opinion. We have to be wary of triggers caused by stress. Look at the positive though, you are back to your quit. Take @Sazerac's advice above ^^. Stay close to the board and talk to the people here. They will help. Here's hoping that you can pull off your quit, all the best!!!
    Good to see you back ....never give up ....giving up !!!
    I also think stress is the primary reason for most relapses. The false belief that smoking relieves that stress is why so many light up again only to find, they feel like crap! Not only is their stress still there but they have just ruined their quit as well. We use smoking as an avoidance tool. Go have a smoke so we don't have to face the situation that is causing the stress. Smoking releases endorphins in the brain which gives us a temporary "good feeling". That's why we think smoking relieves stress - that temporary good feeling we get when we light up. Your stress is still there. The situation that caused the stress is still there. Plus, now you have another stress in your life. The stress that begins building as soon as you put out that smoke. Stress because you're an addict and you need that next fix. Break the cycle - just quit! 
Well I made it  through the first week! My badge from my app! Edited July 23 by Diane R
    Congratulations, Diane on your First Week of Freedom !  This is a very big deal and you need to reward yourself.
It’s funny I love all the little badges that app gives me. The app is quit now in case anyone wants  to get it.Edited July 23 by Diane R
    That is fantastic Diane, congratulations     
Somedays I thought I might cave. But than I remembered all the  fatigue,  nausea, and moodiness I have had. And I thought better of it. I sure don’t want to go  backwards. Plus I hate that my life  revolved around cigarettes. Where am I going to have one. Do I have enough to last. When are they leaving so I can go smoke etc etc. Edited July 23 by Diane R
1 minute ago, Diane R said:             Somedays I thought I might cave. But than I remembered all the  fatigue,  nausea, and moodiness I have had. And I thought better of it. I sure don’t want to go  backwards. Plus I hate that my life  revolved around cigarettes. Where am I going to have one. Do I have enough to last. When are they leaving so I can go smoke etc etc.          THIS is what will get you through! Thinking like this is your best tool for staving off those monster cravings. Never go back - it's too hard to get to where you are now. Moving forward is the only logical plan
That’s an  understatement lol. My hubby is sick of me right now. I have been very grumpy. And everything gets on my nerves lol. But I have started enjoying the pool every afternoon. And a few white claws.  That’s hard seltzer in case anyone hasn’t heard of them before they are delicious and only 2 carbohydrates. It’s a win win for me!Edited July 23 by Diane R
    ^^^ Rewards ARE important after all  Good for you - enjoy!
Congratulations Diane!  I know that first week was really tough but keep up the great work!   You are doing great!       Edited July 23 by johnny5
Thanks again everyone. This forum has been a huge help to me. It’s a great place to  educate. And also to vent and get good advise. I know without a  doubt  it would’ve been much harder if I didn’t have the forum  to go to. Edited July 23 by Diane R
    You are on your way now Diane.  Once the tough week is over, you can conquer the craves.    We love helping you achieve your freedom.  It is exciting for us, as it is for you.     Keep that quit going!!!!!!! 
        Here's another badge and yay you!
    You did it!!!! Great Job!!!
    You are awesome, Diane !!!   
    Nicely done @Diane R!!!
Ankush thank you 2 weeks now  yippee!
    Love these badges lol
Congrats on 2 weeks, Diane.
Thanks MLML. It feels wonderful to be smoke free 2 weeks. And I’m feeling a lot better too. Still having  insomnia and a little short of breath if I do a lot. But there are so many more  positives.
    Glad you feel so much better Diane. Mention and celebrated the positives as often as possible, it wil help you build a solid quit :). 
    Look at those numbers @Diane R!! Keep up the fight!!!
    Two weeks is splendid progress. You are doing great, Diane. Remember to reward yourself for every crave/trigger conquered.
    Yay Diane, two weeks is awesome! 
    Halfway through your first month, Diane!  How fabulous it that?  Very.      Glad to hear you're feeling better already.  Congratulations and keep up the great work.     
    Thanks everyone. Went to dinner last night as a reward. Hope everyone has a great Monday. I have my granddaughter coming over in a little while to spend the night. Her and I will be doing girly things this afternoon!
And this visit Gramma won't need to slip away every half hour or so to go have a smoke!     Great work Diane! Congrats on 2 weeks
48 minutes ago, Diane R said:               Thanks everyone. Went to dinner last night as a reward. Hope everyone has a great Monday. I have my granddaughter coming over in a little while to spend the night. Her and I will be doing girly things this afternoon!                More time to spend with your granddaughter doing nice things together...    Well done on your fabulous 2 weeks
Awesome job on the 2 week mark Diane -- Keep it going!!!!
Congrats Diane on your first week over and done...... Here's to week 2..
Thanks everyone. My granddaughter is watching her show. Her words lol. She very busy lol. She 5 going on 30. So funny. She heard me tell her mom I quit smoking and she said now nana you don’t have to go smoke anymore. I certainly don’t want her to pick it up ever. Another good reason to quit and stay quit!
3 minutes ago, Diane R said:                Thanks everyone. My granddaughter is watching her show. Her words lol. She very busy lol. She 5 going on 30. So funny. She heard me tell her mom I quit smoking and she said now nana you don’t have to go smoke anymore. I certainly don’t want her to pick it up ever. Another good reason to quit and stay quit!         You see! Decisions you make (good or bad) affect others in ways you are sometimes not even aware of. I'm sure your Grand Daughter is very happy her Gramma doesn't smoke anymore
    She happy I have more time to do things with her. My grandson is older and he hates smoking. He very happy I don’t smoke. He doesn’t want me to die from it. 
    Great job Diane. I used another app that gave me badges and told me the health improvements I was achieving. I too found it motivating.     Keep up the good work. You’re doing this!
    I am so glad you are beginning to reap the rewards of being smoke free. The gifts will continue and expand.  Learning to live free is v. exciting.      It was only after I quit that I realized how living creatures around me were truly affected by my addiction.    My denial ran v. deep.   
    Congrats Diane  
    Sazerac I think everyone’s denial runs very deep. An addict will, say or do anything to get their fix. Ours just happens to be a legal drug. Every time I am doing something that I would have a cigarette after I say I don’t smoke. And I say it out loud. It seems to be working for me, at least for now. I want to get that mindset  instilled in my brain. 
10 minutes ago, Diane R said:               Sazerac I think everyone’s denial runs very deep. An addict will, say or do anything to get their fix. Ours just happens to be a legal drug. Every time I am doing something that I would have a cigarette after I say I don’t smoke. And I say it out loud. It seems to be working for me, at least for now. I want to get that mindset  instilled in my brain.                    Yes, that's how it's done !  I said, Free Your Head !   I am so glad you quit, it is inspiring, Diane.
    Nice positive outlook towards your quit @Diane R , you seem happy with your quit and that is also important. Smile a lot and think "How awesome, I quit, I quit smoking!!!"
Ankush I’m very happy with my quit. I planned for it and waited until our family vacation was over. I didn’t think 7 grandkids 3 of ours kids and their spouses would be a good time to quit. We have a couple of grandsons that are hard to handle. Always into something lol. I started my Chantix the Monday we got back. So I was prepared for this quit. Hope you quit is going good.
@Diane R So far, my quit is fine.
    Hi everyone I just wanted to check in and say Hi.  I don't get a chance to be here often but I do have time now.  So I wanted to say Hi, keep fighting the good fight,  IT IS SO WORTH IT!!!    Don't let anyone or anything come between you and your quit!!!! I'm feeling better today, learning how to live a non smoker is FABULOUS!!!!!  I'm just enjoying the ride!!! It hasn't always been like this but for today it is!! So for anyone who is feeling ? Hold your head up because YOU ARE WINNING!!! every day that you say no to smoking you are WINNING!!!!!
    Great to hear from you QueenB and so happy that your quit is going strong!!!!
    Glad you are enjoying the results you're seeing QueenB! Keep building that quit even stronger. There are so many benefits to enjoy as a nonsmoker. There'll be even more you will discover as you continue through your first year.
    Hi QueenB, thanks for checking in. Glad you're feeling better today, it's just going to get better from here   
    Hi Queen B....  Your doing great ...the rewards keep coming ...congrats on a fabulous quit !!!
3 hours ago, QueenB said:               Hi everyone I just wanted to check in and say Hi.  I don't get a chance to be here often but I do have time now.  So I wanted to say Hi, keep fighting the good fight,  IT IS SO WORTH IT!!!                    Don't let anyone or anything come between you and your quit!!!! I'm feeling better today, learning how to live a non smoker is FABULOUS!!!!!  I'm just enjoying the ride!!! It hasn't always been like this but for today it is!! So for anyone who is feeling ? Hold your head up because YOU ARE WINNING!!! every day that you say no to smoking you are WINNING!!!!!                 Absolutely fabulous post, QueenB !      Stay vigilant and let us know if you need anything from a kick in the butt to a big sloppy kiss.    We love quitters so much.
@QueenB Nice of you to check in on us and give us an update on your quit. I'm glad to know that you're doing well in your quit and off course, thank you for motivating us to keep our quits going!!!
    Here is a vid from our friend, Joel, about the consequences of relapse. We think we have all the time in the world but, we don't.   If you have quit, protect your quit with your life. Quitting IS about Life and Death         
    Should have watched this before I blew my quit today afternoon. I had forgotten I had seen it before during the early days of my first quit. Should have just gone through Joel's channel again. Should not have gotten impulsive and gone for a cigarette. I'm going to have another go at my quit. I haven't had a smoke after today afternoon and I'm not going to either. Set a quit date for tomorrow.
    Oh, Ankush, I am so sorry you chose to smoke.   Why wait to quit ?  It will just make it harder the more brain receptors you loose to nicotine !    Just quit NOW.  We are on your side !        
@Sazerac I chose a quit date for tomorrow because I already had that one cigarette today afternoon. While I have not had a cigarette after and will not have either, I have to set the quit date for tomorrow since I already had one today, just to make the quit date more accurate. I'm doing OK as far as withdrawal goes (I am not experiencing withdrawal so far). That cigarette didn't even give me the kind of kick it used to, just left a bad taste in my mouth, with only 2 minutes of relief, which I could've as well got if I had just tried to calm myself down (I was in a fit of rage at the time). So, the cigarette was pointless.Edited July 26 by Ankush
Ahw shit, no! I am really sorry to hear that. You had a great quit going and you are such a steady factor here..        Please muster up courage and cary on with your quit. Strong decision you made about that. The date is just a date, as much as I understand your need to make it accurate.  What matters most, obviously,  is that you dont light up again.      Please, please call out to us tonight/today, when you do experience withdrawl. Theres a great chance you will, since you administered nicotine to your system.               Edited July 26 by MLMR
21 minutes ago, Ankush said:    @Sazerac I chose a quit date for tomorrow because I already had that one cigarette today afternoon. While I have not had a cigarette after and will not have either, I have to set the quit date for tomorrow since I already had one today, just to make the quit date more accurate. I'm doing OK as far as withdrawal goes (I am not experiencing withdrawal so far). That cigarette didn't even give me the kind of kick it used to, just left a bad taste in my mouth, with only 2 minutes of relief, which I could've as well got if I had just tried to calm myself down (I was in a fit of rage at the time). So, the cigarette was pointless.              Now, I understand about 'quit date', Ankush, thank you for your explanation.    Glad you are back on the good foot. NOPE your way through this, it is the only salvation.
@MLMR Thank you for encouraging me. I will carry on with my quit. I realized though, from my experience with my quit last time, that I had found the quitting process easy but staying quit was becoming increasingly difficult due to other factors. Moreover, I may have become a bit complacent without realizing it. So, I'm spending some time watching some of Joel's videos again, including the one on complacency. I just couldn't help myself, I flew in a fit of rage, became impulsive and ran out to buy the cigarette. Big mistake.
@Sazerac Yup, I will YUP to NOPE (if that makes sense)
    Here is Joel's vid on Complacency that @Ankush mentioned.    
    Sorry to hear you relapsed Ankush. You were doing really well and had gathered a lot of valuable information about smoking. You have now learned another important thing. It's not worth disrupting your quit with a cigarette for any reason. I hope you keep this lesson top of mind as you move forward with the start of your new quit. You will no doubt face a similar situation at some point in the future so you will need to rely on this experience at some point to avoid the same result. Welcome back fellow quitter  
    Sorry you relapsed Ankush but even more I'm sorry you didn't come here and allow us to help you through the crave that caused you to smoke. You are such a supporter here so you know the importance of our community and fighting this addiction.  I would also suggest making a ticker for your signature. Looking at that everyday shows you just how much time, money and cigs not smoked you've accumulated and also shows you what you will lose should you relapse.  Glad you're back on your quit and fyi, your quit starts the moment you put out that last cigarette
@reciprocity Well, I'm hoping I don't face any more situations like the one I faced this afternoon.Edited July 26 by Ankush
@jillar I tried making a ticker, however, the ticker doesn't support Indian Rupees. I then tried converting Indian Rupees to Dollars or Euros, but I just got an error saying that the amount was too small or something like that. Don't remember what the exact error was. 
1 USD = 68.9 INR    1 INR = 0.0145127 USD
31 minutes ago, Ankush said:    @reciprocity Well, I'm hoping I don't face any more situations like the one I faced this afternoon.             I hope you never face any more horrible situations, Ankush but, life throws us challenges all the time and we must never put our quit in peril.     I copied our friend, @Cristóbal's excellent post for you and for others dealing with life issues.    YOUR QUIT & YOUR LIFE - THE PROPER SEQUENCE  By Cristóbal,      When our quits are young, we must learn and then practice in a conscious manner, to disconnect and keep separate our quits from all life events.       We learn to always keep our quits sacred, protected, and never influenced by any life event that may happen.        This dynamic we may call The Proper Sequence, and it is powered by your commitment to Never.Take.Another.Puff. (NTAP).  It does not matter what may happen on any day in your life......as long as you maintain in a conscious manner The Proper Sequence dynamic as a primary element of your quit, you will not smoke.    The Proper Sequence is: YOU --> QUIT --> LIFE.  •NOT•:  YOU --> LIFE --> QUIT.  By maintaining this simple sequence dynamic in your quit, you will not ever have your quit influenced by life events.       If you always keep your quit close to you,  protecting it with your commitment to Never.Take.Another.Puff (NTAP), you will never, *EVER*, smoke again.      We build our quits, and train our minds, our emotions, and our spirits to live as non-smokers in beautiful freedomby continuing to commit to NTAP. as our way of not smoking, and our way of slowly putting this awful addiction to sleep.  Consciously adding The Proper Sequence dynamic to your new non-smoker identity will strengthen your quit even more.         Cristóbal    Edited July 26 by Sazerac
@Sazerac You are correct that life from time to time throws challenges at us, but it's the petty challenges that I face that get to me.Thank you for that post. We must indeed keep our quits and our lives separate. Its difficult to do so though, since our lives were so mixed up with smoking when we were smokers.Edited July 26 by Ankush
@Jordan7 Just tried creating the ticker again. The error I get is "Please select a value that is no less than 1"
How much do you pay for a pack of 20 cigarettes in Indian Rupees?  Divide that amount by 68.9 (or 69) and that will give you the conversion to USD.  According to Google the average price of a 20 cigarette pack in India is the equivalent of roughly 4 USD.  How many did you smoke per day on average?   If you smoked less that 5 a day the cost would be less than $1, so that could be why you are getting the error message.
    This is sadness indeed ...I was rooting for you Ankush....and willing you on ....   Life will always throw us curve balls....all you can do is learn by this ....   Please post a SOS ,should you get angry enough to smoke ,with your next Fabulous quit...    Glad your jumping right back on !!!!!
@Ankush, sorry to hear.  But also glad that you're back at it.  A lot of folks require more than 1 attempt.     Do use the SOS in future - folks will jump in to support you.  You really need to get past the minute or 2 of intense craving and that's where the support helps you.       Don't let cigs be the boss of you.
    I'm really sorry to hear this, Ankush.  I'm glad you are quitting again, though.        Complacency can be rough but you must commit to never taking another puff.      Reach out if temptation like this arises again by posting an SOS.  We all want to see you succeed.
    How are you doing @Ankush?   
@Jordan7 Yes, that's why I get the error. The cost of cigarettes also depends on the brand. I was using the brand with the lowest cost. In addition to this, the quantity I used to smoke sometimes varied on a day to day and month to month basis. At the time of my first quit, it was around 3-4 cigarettes a day which cost me around 16 rupees a day.@Doreensfree Thank you. I am indeed back to being quit. Took the NOPE pledge as soon as I logged on to QuitTrain@d2e8b8 Yes, I won't let cigs be the boss of me. I will be the boss of them and since they are nothing but unhealthy ruin, they are fired.@johnny5 Yes, I shouldn't have become complacent, I'm back on track with my quit.
@MLMR Thank you for checking up on me. Keeping that quit going. It's a pain though to have to start from scratch all over again. I guess its a million times better than being a smoker again though.
    Well first ...Well done ....you are strong ..you just got back up.....that takes guts and strength my friend ...    I had a punching pillow when I first quit ...I put a face in it with a permanent marker...not saying who,s face it was ...  When I got angry over something ...I used to punch that pillow ,so hard ,it would go flying across the room.    Shouting NOPE...    It sure helped at the time ....just sayin !!!!!  
@Doreensfree I still have those post-its all over my room that say "Never Take Another Puff". Yet, I relapsed yesterday. Probably shows that no matter what I try, Nicodemon can come back, I have to still learn to be smarter than the cigarettes.
38 minutes ago, Ankush said:    @Doreensfree I still have those post-its all over my room that say "Never Take Another Puff". Yet, I relapsed yesterday. Probably shows that no matter what I try, Nicodemon can come back, I have to still learn to be smarter than the cigarettes.                Knowledge ...you outsmart the bugger...you learn everything you can about this horrible killer addiction ,and fight it with everything youv,e got ...   Read,read ..watch all the videos...go back here and read old posts ..gather all the information you need .  This is how it's done ...your are smarter ,you just have to believe it ...
4 hours ago, Ankush said:   @Jordan7 Yes, that's why I get the error. The cost of cigarettes also depends on the brand. I was using the brand with the lowest cost. In addition to this, the quantity I used to smoke sometimes varied on a day to day and month to month basis. At the time of my first quit, it was around 3-4 cigarettes a day which cost me around 16 rupees a day.                                 That's about 23 cents a day, or a little less than a quarter of a dollar, so if you want to do a ticker just put $1 (the minimum required amount for the ticker to work)  in the daily cost amount and know that as it adds up  you always have to divide that figure by 4 to get the approximate amount saved.  You can still plug in the average number of daily cigarettes and watch those add up too.
@Ankush well done. I agree with Doreen, it takes guts and strength to get back up. You inspire me by doing that.        You will get there, I am sure of that!       
@Jordan7 Yes, that's a good point. I calculated though (manually), I have spent approximately $9500 on cigarettes till date and smoked around 40880. What a profound waste. If I hadn't started smoking and had saved the amount of money I spent on cigarettes everyday little by little, I would have been able to buy the used car I always wanted around 10 years ago. The car isn't even available anymore in the used car market. Also my estimate of how much I've spent on cigarettes is most likely very skewed because the price of cigarettes has changed over the years as have my brands and their respective prices as well.@MLMR Thank you for encouraging me Edited July 27 by Ankush
Great work Ankush! As others have said, takes courage to get up, put your mistake behind you and carry right on with your quit! I think you should change your quit date back to 7-26-2019 though. Your last cigarette was on that date so that is your quit date.
@reciprocity Yes, but I had a cigarette. Having the cigarette doesn't make it a quit date for me, its the date I relapsed. So the day's damage is done. I am taking 27th as the quit date because starting today (again), I have not had a smoke. So yesterday was like a relapse day, and today is the quit day since starting today (again), no smoking.
    That's fine Ankush. I understand your point of view on this - just glad you are quit again. That's the important part  
I am so glad you jumped back on the train, @Ankush, You are an important member here and I look forward to all your posts.      You are so supportive of others quitting and very clear about your journey. How are you feeling ?   Having withdrawal symptoms ?    or ?Edited July 27 by Sazerac
    Good job on getting back to the quit, Ankush.  You can do this!
    Congratulations on wasting no time in restarting your quit.   I’ve been there.  It is frustrating, infuriating & heartbreaking.   I’ve frequently seen you around here. Now more than ever- stay close.         Life will come around and punch us in the face no matter what stage we are in our quit.   Knowing this, make a plan on how to deal with crap that will thrown next time. A plan that doesn’t involve smoking.   A plan that makes you better & stronger.
Thank you @reciprocity and @johnny5
@Sazerac Oddly enough, no withdrawal symptoms so far, and that's a good thing. Just finished exercising, having a nice bath and taking the dogs out for their toilet. Had plenty of water. 
@Lust4Life I know life has its challenges, its the petty challenges that I don't like.
    I'm rooting for you Ankush.....you can do it ...you just need to want freedom bad enough ...
    Thank you @Doreensfree
On 7/28/2019 at 3:47 AM, Ankush said:   @Sazerac Oddly enough, no withdrawal symptoms so far, and that's a good thing. Just finished exercising, having a nice bath and taking the dogs out for their toilet. Had plenty of water.          Oh, I am glad you are feeling OK.   Stay focused and NOPE your way through your days.
@Sazerac Thank you, going to keep NOPE-ing
    I've eaten my body weight in pretzel sticks today. Whatever it takes, right?
    During the short term yes -- if it helps, it helps.  Doing good!!!
    Yep. Whatever it takes. Yes pretzels. No puffs.
Smoking leaves lasting marks on DNA, study saysBy Maureen Salamon   |        TUESDAY, Sept. 20, 2016 -- Smoking cigarettes can leave a lasting imprint on human DNA, altering more than 7,000 genes in ways that may contribute to the development of smoking-related diseases, a new study says.Reviewing results from blood samples taken from nearly 16,000 people in 16 prior studies, the researchers also found that for those who stopped smoking, most genes "recovered" within five years of quitting.  "Although this emphasizes the long-term residual effects of smoking, the good news is the sooner you can stop smoking, the better off you are,"said study author Dr. Stephanie London. She is deputy chief of the epidemiology branch of the U.S. National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences.  Even so, London's team found that some genetic changes remained, even 30 years after quitting smoking.London and her colleagues zeroed in on a process called DNA methylation -- genetic changes that don't alter genes' underlying code but can change how they're expressed, or turned on.    Known to contribute to an array of health problems including cancer, heart disease and stroke, cigarette smoking remains the leading preventable cause of death worldwide, accounting for nearly 6 million deaths each year, according to the study.    Even decades after smokers quit, the habit confers the possibility of long-term risk of disease. DNA methylation changes have been proposed as one possible reason for this.London's team compared DNA methylation sites in current and former smokers to those who never smoked.   In addition to finding that smoking-related DNA sites were linked with more than 7,000 genes -- about one-third of known human genes -- the researchers learned that some DNA methylation sites persisted even three decades after quitting.    Identifying these smoking-related DNA changes may lead to diagnostic tests that can more accurately evaluate a patient's smoking history, London said."We could use this type of data to estimate people's previous smoking," she said. "No one says they smoke when they don't, but they say they don't smoke when they do, so we could use these signals to find that out."   This information could also be useful for better identifying the health effects of a person's smoking history, London said. And it offers the possibility of developing potential new treatments to repair DNA methylation sites, she said."There's almost no time this information isn't useful," London explained. "Especially with a smoking-related condition, if you have an excellent biomarker of smoking, it allows you to pinpoint the effects of other exposures in a more rigorous way."     The study was published Sept. 20 in the journal Circulation: Cardiovascular Genetics.Dr. Norman Edelman is senior scientific advisor for the American Lung Association.     He said the new research "raises some tantalizing issues" despite not being able to establish a clear cause-and-effect relationship between smoking-related genetic changes and resulting health problems.  "Those of us who deal with smoking as a public health problem understand ...that anything you look at seems to be affected by smoking," he said. "Many cancers, bone disease, lung disease, heart disease, [gastrointestinal] problems -- smoking has such a wide array of effects, it's not especially surprising to hear its epigenetic effects.  "The message here is that smoking has an enormous, widespread impact on your genes," Edelman added. "Most of it is reversible, but some is not. So if you smoke, you're going to alter your genetic makeup in a way that's not totally reversible."     More information   The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention offers information on the health effects of cigarette smoking.Copyright © 2016 HealthDay. All rights reserved.   Here is more information from Science Daily, June 2017Where Cigarette Smoking's Damage Is Done -- Down To Your DNAEdited April 24, 2018 by Sazeracadditions
    found this post,  way back in the crypt
    This is depressing
    Scary stuff.
    Thanks for sharing Sazerac. I had no idea they could quantify with a biological marker how long someone had smoked and the recovery from that insult to the human body. I used to justify that smoking was 'my only vice'... But it was like playing Russian roulette.   
Here is an article from June 2017 from Science Daily that goes into more depth. I also edited the link into the original post above.     Where cigarette smoking's damage is done -- down to your DNA        Edited April 24, 2018 by Sazerac
    knowledge is power
@Sazerac Nice post
    Ok, that was just to get your attention....     My sister is going to quit smoking - she just started Chantix.      She has the normal fears, alright....she's scared out of her wits.      She calls me with her new "fear" OR "I was wondering..."        I am able to give her an intelligent answer! Imagine that????       I guess two and a half years of reading, reading & more reading not only helped me but just might help my sister reach her sticky quit.  KTQ
    That's AWESOME beazel, I'm so happy for you and your sis  We're here if she needs some extra support   
I’m using Chantix to quit today is 7 days of no smoking. Chantix works I didn’t set a quit date but by week 3 I was ready to just quit. Make sure she take the Chantix after she has a meal and drink the 8 ounces of water or the  nausea is awful. But I found if I wait 10 to 15 minutes after I ate I didn’t get the sour  stomach so bad. Tell her good luck!
    This is great news B !
    I'm sure you have told her all about solid support being a great quit tool so perhaps we'll see her around the forum   Lots of love & respect for quitters around here!
    That's awesome, Beazel!  I hope to see her around here.      
    I will tell her there is a train full of amazing folks to support her! Thank you.
    You can also tell her that you're a quit smoking celebrity and are known nationwide. She must do as you say. 
    Great news...   There are plenty of empty seats...
    Great news, wishing success for your sister.
    That’s a mighty fine compliment to you beazel!  Show her the way!  The seas are scary but you’re an experienced Captain and will steer her to smobriety!!   We all will! 
    ....put something in my mouth and set it on fire....
    It's not an option.
No you don’t want to do that. Every time I think about a cigarette I remember how awful I felt the first few days. You’ve got 3 days over with just 1 day at a time.
    Excellent choice -- Great commitment!!!
    Good for you Michelle.   You are doing great.   
    That's how it's done ...repeat tomorrow.!!!!    Way to go Michelle...
    Thanks all. I'm trying to go without a patch today. I just want to get the nicotine out of my system. I may have three days but the nicotine is still in my system.....Today has been one long craving for hours at a time and its making me crazy
    Good move - it might be tough but you can be tougher.  Remember the deep breathing and cold water/juice maybe a hard candy or two and stay close to the site -- keep focused  and you can do this!!!
I understand you wanting to get the nicotine out of your system but I'm afraid with your history of relapses this may not be a great idea. There is no shame in using NRT's so please, if you feel your quit is in jeopardy, put a patch on. XoxoEdited July 24 by jillarDamn autocorrect 😠
    I am an advocate of cold turkey.    It is quicker, safer, cheaper and statistically more successful than many methods.      This doesn't mean other methods are doomed to failure,  All Quits are a Good Quit.      All you must do is stand by your commitment to Never Take Another Puff. NOPE your way through.  (or pretzel your way through, lol)      If you want to quit nicotine then stop administering the drug.  Try Oxygen. If you are fooling yourself and setting yourself up for a relapse by removing patches and taking up cold turkey,    you know that in your heart of hearts.  Don't blame cold turkey for relapse.    Relapse is pre-meditated.  You must procure a smoke and light it. Don't do it.
@MichelleDoesntSmokeAnymore Try writing it on you hand, every time you look at your hand in anticipation for a smoke, what you've written may help you back away from smoking. Just a suggestion...
    And a good one! Thanks Ankush!
    Whatever it takes to stay quit... Do it .....whatever works for you...Do it Just stay determined 
For me personally and what I have seen, I reflect on the word "Struggle" . . .      To watch a loved one die from cancer while all you can see is the whites of their eyes. The pain and frustration only shows in the wrinkles of their face, because they cannot talk . .. that's a struggle.That cannot be undone        To hear about a roadside bomb hitting a convoy of peace keepers in Afghanistan . . . and your child may be in that convoy . . . communications are automatically cut for several days . .. that's a struggle.You have no control        To give up on planning yearly fishing trips with your best buddy, because cancer just stole him away from you. . . that's a struggle.That cannot be forgotten       To hear the last words of your sister in moans and groans because the pain before dying of cancer is so much. . . that's a struggle.That cannot be erased       To see a family member taken off life support. . . that's a struggle.That cannot be erased      To learn about others who have no food to eat tomorrow, and likely will die . . . that's a struggle.That cannot be ignored      To have a strong crave to smoke a cigarette . . . that's not a struggle . . . That's an inconvenience.That can be undoneThat can be controlledThat can be forgottenThat can be erasedThat can be ignored        You can do it!      Peter
    Thanks, Peter....sometimes you need to be reminded to keep things in perspective!
    Great post Peter ..
11 hours ago, Peter_is_in said:             To have a strong crave to smoke a cigarette . . . that's not a struggle . . . That's an inconvenience.      That can be undoneThat can be controlledThat can be forgottenThat can be erasedThat can be ignored  Peter, this is great and couldn't have come at a better time for me.  I have copied this and slipped it in my wallet to pull out and read when I get those unwanted craves. If I wasn't such a wimp, I might have had it tattooed somewhere!    I have been thinking it has been a difficult struggle lately.  My dad is in the hospital now and I do not think he will be able to pull out of it.  The stress has been constant.   Last night, as I lay in bed,  I was so angry that those craves kept coming at me.  I could not sleep.  I was so irritated at, my husband snoring, the clock downstairs chiming, replaying the days events over and over in my brain.  I actually thought, if there wasn't this freezing polar vortex outside, I might have been tempted to go to the corner store.      My quit, so far has been the thing that has made me most proud.  It has made me feel strong.  Having that cigarette would be having a big temper tantrum because I can not control my life. You definitely have great wisdom to share.  I am so glad you have found us.
This is a great post, Peter.  Thank you.        and now for you, Missy !        3 hours ago, Linda Thomas said:                                 My quit, so far has been the thing that has made me most proud.                     It has made me feel strong.                                         Having that cigarette would be having a big temper tantrum because I can not control my life.﻿﻿﻿                                    More tattoos for you        I CONTROL MY LIFE                    Edited January 27 by Sazerac
    Your the Boss Linda.....That seat on the Lido has your name on it ....xx...nothing or no- one can take it away ....only you ......  But we are all kinda waiting for your party ...xxxxx
    Said perfectly! Thanks for helping put all this in perspective.
    Well said Peter, well said!!!
5 hours ago, Linda Thomas said:             . . . I have been thinking it has been a difficult struggle lately.  My dad is in the hospital now and I do not think he will be able to pull out of it.  The stress has been constant . . .                Hi Linda,       So sorry to hear about your Dad. And I totally understand the struggles during such a time.  Not long ago, I have experienced a life changing event in a hospital environment.  Two loved ones (a young couple), being good samaritans, pulled over to help someone in need. But instead, they were both struck by a vehicle. During their time in the hospital, I often had to step outside to get fresh air, to clear my mind, to grieve (one loved one passed away) . . . And at those times I saw patients, and staff, standing in the freezing cold, having a smoke.  I could not wrap my head around the fact that watching them, sucking on a cancer stick, they were endangering their own lives . . . while at the same time our loved ones struggled to survive. And I will never forget the irony of seeing the staff taking a smoke break, since after they were done, they were the same people who desperately worked at saving our loved ones.  A horrible journey for us, and a lesson of how precious life is and yet, how fragile.  You did well not giving in Linda . . . stay strong, for yourself, and for your Dad.
    Peter,  I am sorry for your loss also.  Such a heartbreaking situation.  Thank you so much for sharing it in a way that it will help others.  
On 1/26/2019 at 9:00 PM, Peter_is_in said:  For me personally and what I have seen, I reflect on the word "Struggle" . . .                              To watch a loved one die from cancer while all you can see is the whites of their eyes. The pain and frustration only shows in the wrinkles of their face, because they cannot talk . .. that's a struggle.     That cannot be undone                               To hear about a roadside bomb hitting a convoy of peace keepers in Afghanistan . . . and your child may be in that convoy . . . communications are automatically cut for several days . .. that's a struggle.       You have no control                             To give up on planning yearly fishing trips with your best buddy, because cancer just stole him away from you. . . that's a struggle.       That cannot be forgotten                                To hear the last words of your sister in moans and groans because the pain before dying of cancer is so much. . . that's a struggle.        That cannot be erased                               To see a family member taken off life support. . . that's a struggle.       That cannot be erased                               To learn about others who have no food to eat tomorrow, and likely will die . . . that's a struggle.        That cannot be ignored                              To have a strong crave to smoke a cigarette . . . that's not a struggle . . . That's an inconvenience.      That can be undoneThat can be controlledThat can be forgottenThat can be erasedThat can be ignored                              You can do it!                                      Peter               This is a powerful post that puts struggles with nicotine addiction into perspective.
in the 70s, cigarette smoke didn't smell of chemicals? I grew up in a house with three adults smokers and while the smoke was unpleasant and irritating to my nose and lungs as a child, I don't remember the chemical smell they have today. Someone can light one two blocks away and you can smell it.
    I smoked for years and did not realize the chemicals that were in cigarettes.  I came from a nonsmoking home.  I don't think I could make that distinction.  
    You are becoming more aware of the smell that cigarettes produce when you get away from them even a short while.  I think I was just completely accustomed to the smell that smoking created (I also grew up in a household of smokers)!!! 
Thanks for the reply but no, thats not it...I noticed this several years ago. I started reading up on it after I posted this...sounds like the tobacco industry started adding things to them to make them more addictive, starting in the 90s.
    Very well could be, I know that possibly there had been something about that in the news many years ago though I never saw something final on that.  I have really never noticed anything different about the odor of cigarettes other than I cannot stand the smell of them now !!!!!
On 7/21/2019 at 4:47 PM, Martian5 said:             You are becoming more aware of the smell that cigarettes produce when you get away from them even a short while.  I think I was just completely accustomed to the smell that smoking created (I also grew up in a household of smokers)!!!              That is definitely my experience.  Not only did both my parents smoke , most of my closer relatives smoked, at least one parent of most of my friends smoked, and heck, even my doctors office allowed smoking back in the 60s and 70s.  Add to that the fact that smoking was allowed anywhere except for fire hazard areas, I never knew what a smoke free place smelled like.
Oh they started putting  additives in cigarettes to make them more addicting in the 60s or 70s. I watched a video on that some time ago. Might have been hbo  documentary. I can’t remember. My father smoked so I never noticed the smell til I was much older. But even when I smoked I could smell it if I entered a place that  allowed smoking. Now I can really smell it.
    I think you're just more sensitive to it now that you're a non-smoker. I rarely used to notice cigarette smoke back when I smoked. Now I smell it everywhere. I can smell it when on my motorcycle on the freeway.  It's pretty gross.
I can remember smoking on airplanes!  They had a "smoking section" and a "nonsmoking section".  As if cigarette smoke knew not to travel beyond row 20      I'm actually amazed at how keenly I can smell stale smoke on a person who has just had one. That really stinks to me. The actual smell of someone smoking a cigarette, I don't mind as long as they aren't blowing it in my face.Edited July 23 by reciprocity
On 7/21/2019 at 9:59 PM, MichelleDoesntSmokeAnymore said:               Thanks for the reply but no, thats not it...I noticed this several years ago. I started reading up on it after I posted this...sounds like the tobacco industry started adding things to them to make them more addictive, starting in the 90s.         This is true..they added more chemicals to keep folk hooked ,when more people started Quitting...   This is why quitted is harder..There is so much more chemicals now ,then when our parents  smoked ..
Around 2004, I started getting sinus infections out of nowhere.  As time went on, they increased in frequency and duration.  Sometimes I had to be on antibiotics long term to get rid of it.  I almost always had a sinus infection.  It was a miserable way to live.  Fast forward to 2013, I saw an ENT.  Last April, I had a septoplasty, turbinectomy, concha bullosa re-section and sinus surgery on my ethmoid and maxillary sinus cavities.  While I could breathe better and the sinus infections weren't as bad, I still got them.  The doctor told me smoking was probably the culprit.  Yeah right, I thought.  A couple months later, I quit during a sinus infection.  I have had one sinus infection since then, just one.  Coincidence?  I think not  :)
Apparent additional blood flow to excitable areas.
Mine was how much I can smell and taste everything so differently and how much I smell better, the downside I can smell horrid smells better too, especially stale smoke on people Its all been positive though and continues to be :)
So happy to hear you aren't getting them as much Colleen! Sinus infections are brutal.  Tracey, I'm the same way. I can smell everything, good and bad. Sometimes I wish I couldn't smell as good as I do, lol. People stink!
So happy to hear you aren't getting them as much Colleen! Sinus infections are brutal.  Tracey, I'm the same way. I can smell everything, good and bad. Sometimes I wish I couldn't smell as good as I do, lol. People stink!Yes, yes teenage boys are stinky, especially when they pretend to take a shower. lol  I can tell by scent alone across the room, if my son has washed his hair or not.  :o  As unpleasant as that might seem, I am glad for it!
I got taller, smarter and better looking. Google began asking me questions and the most interesting man in the world applauds to my stories. 
I got taller, smarter and better looking. Google began asking me questions and the most interesting man in the world applauds to my stories.wake up Bakon ...you overslept :-)
I think I smile every night in my sleep. I had bad smokers cough (of course it wasn't from smoking..it was a sinus problem). I am a side sleeper and sometimes when I rolled over I started coughing and it woke me up. The coughing continued and I had to sit up and drink a glass of water. Now I sleep silently...I can toss and turn (not that I want to) there won't be any coughing involved :-)
It wasn't a cough. It was a pillow being placed over your face and I quit because I moved under someone else's bedBoogieman
I know this is going to sound stupid. The question was about "unexpected benefits" ......and some people's top reasons for quitting was the financial cost. I seriously never considered how much $10.50 could add up. These days, I have handfuls of change in my pockets, my purse, the cup holder in my car. And get this: it stays there! For days...weeks even!! Plus, here in Canada we don't have paper bills for $1 and $2 we have coins so "change" can really add up. I probably have $30 in my car cup holder that never would have been there if I was smoking. Every single time my 16yr old has asked me for money in the last 2 months, I've had it. Now.....I think I'll go clean out my cup holder and pockets and buy a treat :)
CanadiN quarters end up here at the time. Got to be Canuck fans can't see difference after couple of iron city beers. 
I was thinking the same thing- money actually stays in my wallet the other day I looked there was $50.00  few days later still$50.00 until yesterday I spent it- not on cigarettes though.
Having extra money in your pocket is definitely a good thing!
Having extra money in your pocket is definitely a good thing!More money for cheese. :)I picked up a piece of 7yr old white cheddar today. :)I dont even have to hide it in the fridge because the people in my house wouldnt touch 7yr old food......they think its gross. Mind you....they eat cheez whiz and processed cheese slices. Something wrong with them :)
Ok, you said unexpected, I expected money, no cough, feeling better and I continue to be delighted with those things. Unexpected was that cough after "ya know" where you had to hold the cough in otherwise you'd eject his "ya know" and now I don't...so that's an unexpected benefit lol.
Mmmm,what beniefts.....Oh ya having my two feet ,to do the shuffle.....feels good 
I met a lot of people willing to help and guide me, to entertain me, to make me feel their struggle, to listen to me, to count with me, to kill extra time I suddenly had, to reassure me, and to celebrate my milestones as I celebrated theirs.  I will probably never meet any of you but quitting has brought me the unexpected benefit of your company.  Quitting has a lot of benefits and it can include new friends that understand what you are what you are trying to do.  I care for all of you.
Periodontal Disease ("Gum Disease") ==> Gone   "No sign of active disease, Mr. Sarge " -- Ms. Hygenist Spring Allergies (20+ year sufferer) ==> Gone  Winter Colds (usually 2 to 4 a year) ==> Gone  Haven't had a cold or bronchitis in near 3 years.  The Sarge can't say for sure any of these were from quitting smoking. He also started vigorous excersize and radically altered his diet at virtually the same time (within 2 or 3 months) of quitting smoking. Could have been quitting. Could have been diet. Could have been all of the above. Who knows?? He didn't expect any of those up there ^^^ but there were a metric crap-ton that were expected that actually showed up, too[1].   Easy Peasy  FOOTNOTE:[1] The classic "better boners via nicotine cessation" is Mrs. Sarge's favorite    :o EDIT: Grammar 'n stuff. Edited April 17, 2014 by Sgt.Sausage
I can't believe how much better I can smell.   My hyacinths are blooming and they smell wonderful!  Waiting for the peonies! 
My fingers aren't as bony and my face isn't as gaunt anymore. Can't get my damn pants on but hey... y'know? It's mostly warm enough to put on the Tarzan loincloth anyway, bwahahaha.
Increased fertility
Increased fertilityUmmmm.....are you and the missus expecting? :)
Yup in September
Yup in SeptemberWe'll look at you poppa jingle!! Congrats!! Babies are da best!! :) 
No more putting out fires in the back seat of my car. That's a big plus!
1.The sheer empowerment of being in charge. I used to do exactly what my addiction told me, when it told me. Now when it gives an order, I laugh at it and tell it where to go. 2. Time. I was spending three hours plus smoking. In the modern age, this smoking was done in specified smoking areas. Give or take, smoking was filling 20%+ of my waking hours. Just smoking. 3. You bunch of lunatics. :D
Awww congrats on the baby Jengels, that's fabulous news!
Yup in SeptemberCongratulations! 
No more chronic chapped lips. Seriously painful chapped lips. Who knew?Life long insomnia pretty much gone.And, yeah. . .only one burn hole in the new car I got in September. The trade in had, um, a few more than that.No more chronic cough.Cleaner teeth and mouth.
Yup in September Congratulations!
Yup in September how many does that make now???  5??  maybe a boy???   congrats to you mister!
how many does that make now???  5??  maybe a boy???   congrats to you mister! Yeah, that makes 5 and it's a boy. (Thank God)
haha....make room for him in the garage!!  :)
garage is off limits to non-danglers
Definitely better teeth! I have had two teeth extractions and a root canal and I'm only 26. :( My teeth are much cleaner/happier right now.
garage is off limits to non-danglers  Partial danglers allowed?  :P  Easy Peasy
I met a lot of people willing to help and guide me, to entertain me, to make me feel their struggle, to listen to me, to count with me, to kill extra time I suddenly had, to reassure me, and to celebrate my milestones as I celebrated theirs. I will probably never meet any of you but quitting has brought me the unexpected benefit of your company. Quitting has a lot of benefits and it can include new friends that understand what you are what you are trying to do. I care for all of you.I just want to give you a hug...I have never told you this...but I think you are very special. Meeting you has be my pleasure!
Around 2004, I started getting sinus infections out of nowhere.  As time went on, they increased in frequency and duration.  Sometimes I had to be on antibiotics long term to get rid of it.  I almost always had a sinus infection.  It was a miserable way to live.  Fast forward to 2013, I saw an ENT.  Last April, I had a septoplasty, turbinectomy, concha bullosa re-section and sinus surgery on my ethmoid and maxillary sinus cavities.  While I could breathe better and the sinus infections weren't as bad, I still got them.  The doctor told me smoking was probably the culprit.  Yeah right, I thought.  A couple months later, I quit during a sinus infection.  I have had one sinus infection since then, just one.  Coincidence?  I think not  :) Colleen, my husband used to also get bad sinus infections, so bad that I would end up taking him a few times a year to the ER (always in the middle of the nite, why is that???) so they could give him morphine because that is the only thing that helped the pain until they’d get antibiotics into him.  He quit smoking 10 years ago, and starting as soon as he quit, he hasn’t had one single sinus attack.  He gets (what I call) normal colds now, nothing that needs a doctor or pain medication.  I’m convinced his sinus troubles were smoking-related too. As for me, one of my favorite things since I quit smoking: I can laugh and laugh and laugh now, and not once do I start choking up a lung 2 seconds later.
No more putting out fires in the back seat of my car. That's a big plus!OMG, I had completely forgot about that.  I've had one brand new car my whole life.  In the first two weeks of owning it, I threw my ciggy out the window (so I wouldn't get the brand new ash tray dirty) and it flew back in on the back seat.  I didn't realize it at first.  Huge burn hole and I cried for days.  It still makes me feel sick to think about it. 
I used to have sinus and bronchial infections also. After I quit I had a septoplasty and as a result of the ENT MD consultation I had a sleep study done. That put me on CPAP. Apparently was stopping breathing anywhere from 10 s to 45 seconds per minute of every hour that I slept. So sinus infections are a lot less maybe once or twice a year always during flu season, sleep is great, and not walking around like a zombie half the time or sleeping 12-14 hours a night on weekends trying to bank some sleep.
Several for me One of my main motivations for giving up smoking was that I had spotted the start of smoking wrinkles on my face.  That was the clincher for me.  I didn't want any more.  Within weeks of stopping my face started to lose that pale greyish colour and the skin looked much fresher and pinker.   Other things:  Much better circulation in my fingers and toes.   No more rotten sinus infections. No more embarrassing coughing fits whilst laughing at something funny.    Much healthier gums.   No more smelly clothes or car.  My car is 12 months old and someone got in it the other day and said.  Wow I love that new car smell  :) Millie x
Found this way back in the library stacks. I share most of the above benefits (well, other than Fertility thank you but, Please No thank you). The major benefit for me is a deep level of inner strength I never knew existed.It is more than 'strength', it has notes of compassion and understanding and more facets that I cannot articulate yet.I also have a grand sense of Freedom.It is Delicious.
The mental peace, that it was finally over, and I knew this was finally it and would never have to do it again. The current mental peace, three years on, that I would no more want to smoke than I would stick my fingers in a deep fat fryer. Given me an enormous sense on mental peace, finally.
Really good to see you Sharon...xx
Really good to see you Sharon...xxThank you Doreen, I'm on FB, are you? Be nice to keep up to date with you xx Reminds me of another unexpected benefit! Can spend more time on my addiction I will never overcome, my addiction to Tenerife and spending lots of time on the Tenerife FB page. 
Took about twenty years to pay off the mortgage and other encumbrances.  I am DEBT FREE. The same with smoking.  I am my own man.   I am SMOKE FREE. Not certain what that means but I sure as hell know what it doesn't mean.    I don't bend my knee to the Nicodemon   Never again.  Not one puff. oh yeah, I don't snore anymore.  That was cool.
My health...my self asteem...oh the list is endless...more money...I have much more energy now...than 20 years ago......I love this new life...
garage is off limits to non-danglersWhat kinda bullshittery is that?I spent the winter restoring a 73 MG. That's right, I was a part time grease monkey.
and another thread about The Benefits of Quitting SmokingEdited July 22 by Sazerac
    Gaining a sh*t to on weight. I pretty much got to buy a whole new wardrobe because I'm so fat now.       
So we have all heard motivational speeches made by sporting coaches, or political figures, or social reformers. We all know snippets of a speeches that at different times in our lives we draw on for inspiration, for solace, four guidance. I don't know about everyone else but since I quit there have been times when the temptation to smoke has been strong and I have had a few quotes that have got me through... this is probably the main one, not in Aussie Rules states of Australia this is a pretty famous speech.. it was made by the coach of Hawthorn during the 1989 AFL Grandfinal and I actually hear this in his voice... so if you listen from the 100sec mark you get the best bits... I just apply the word quit in my head wherever he says game.... but these are the words that at the lowest of the low I hear in my head:        "In every (quit) game there is going to be a crossroad, and when you get to that crossroad, you either step up, or step you down. It is entirely all up to you. You make the decision, not me."
I too had/have special quotes that I turned to when I was having hard times. One of my favorite was 'Nothing Worthwhile comes easily'. I had it as my title so I would read it everyday Edited June 30, 2018 by jillarAuto correct changed easily to radios lol
    Nice post NSJ. I don’t have inspirational quotes but I remember how sh*t difficult it was to stop smoking. If I get a thought to smoke, I ask myself if I want to do that quitting thing again and I say NOPE. I then ask myself if I want emphasymia, COPD, lung cancer, be dependent and useless and I say NOPE! I then get pretty inspired to stick with my NOPE! 
I hear ya, mine was a bit of a song. I heard it on the radio on day one of my quit and I sung it more than once daily for at the very least the first 3 months...       Thank you Hue and Cry       It's the 3rd verse and it kicks in at 2.13  Feel free to boogie on down to the rest of the song too         "I can't stand it, I said I just don't want it  Never gonna need it, anyway yeah    I can't stand it, I said I just don't want it   Never gonna need it, anyway I don't want you, I don't need you  I don't need your tricks and treats I don't need your ministration, your bad determination  I've had enough of you, and your super-bad crew I don't need your, I don't need your    Pseudo-satisfaction baby    I can't stand it, I said I just don't want it   Never gonna need it, anyway yeah    I can't stand it, I don't want it   I don't need your pseudo-satisfaction baby"     Every time sung with passion though the further into my quit I cut it down to "don't want it don't need it NOPE, NOPE, NOPE, NOPE, NOPE."
I am not big into motivational speakers or "positive figures" because they speak all eloquent and intelligent and stuff but then it is found out later they were involved with human trafficking or some other vile action.     My motivational quote when i find myself wanting a smoke is -   No, screw that s***. By the time i get to the store, the craving will have passed anyways".     And here is a motivational tear jerker, get ready for the slow-clap -   People are going to die of smoking related illnesses. Let it not be me, but to be someone else who DOESN'T have the discipline to quit smoking.Edited July 1, 2018 by Jetblack
    We all draw motivation from that place that works for us and we all have different places. This is another one that comes up time and again not just recently but throughout my life it is from a poem my Grandad learned at school that he wrote in his war diary to help him through the rough times...       If the day looks kinder gloomy, An' your chances kinder slim!   If the situation's puzzlin' An' the prospect's awful grim,  An' perplexities keep pressin'  Till all hope is nearly gone,Jus' bristle up an' grit your teeth    An' keep on keepin' on.
    The world is cruel and life is a joke. You gotta be relentless. Theres no other way around, you gotta be gangsta in this life to survive.
        And another from Tommy Hafey (just doesn't feel the same having breakfast coffee down the beach without seeing this great man)...    
    This weekend has hit me hard in my quit journey.        I have felt so exhausted and out of my depth even in menial tasks. I have been sleeping on an off. Having horrible dreams (actually I should call them nightmares) Not sure if this is any side effect of the quit or general exhaustion, but each time I've even felt a slight need to smoke... I have read the poem "Invictus" which is part of my signature.     This poem really wakes up that last bit of strength, will power and resilience I have, and helps me get over the next few minutes, and then some. Next thing I know, the craving is just a blip on the radar.       The one line that I keep saying to myself from this poem is "In the fell clutch of circumstance I have not winced nor cried aloud. Under thebludgeonings of chance My head is bloody, but unbowed." And it won't bow to the trickster that is Nicotine...ever.  Thanks for the lovely post Jo, just what I needed to pick myself up before facing the coming week.
@Tammy what you are going through is totally normal and won't last forever so just try to keep your head up and know that once you get past it you never have to do it again 
11 minutes ago, jillar said:    @Tammy what you are going through is totally normal and won't last forever so just try to keep your head up and know that once you get past it you never have to do it again @jillar Thank you for the kind words...yes I'm hoping this won't last or I will metamorph into a sloth...not that I mind, I've found that creatures who move the slowest, live the longest
5 hours ago, Tammy said:                This weekend has hit me hard in my quit journey.                                        I have felt so exhausted and out of my depth even in menial tasks. I have been sleeping on an off. Having horrible dreams (actually I should call them nightmares) Not sure if this is any side effect of the quit or general exhaustion, but each time I've even felt a slight need to smoke... I have read the poem "Invictus" which is part of my signature.             Fluctuations in mood and energy are more pronounced during the early stages of the quit.  It is important to bear in mind that these ups and downs are not entirely due to the quit.  Addiction does weird things to one's perception and distorts our memories.  When we quit, anytime we begin to feel a bit down our addicted minds offer up a false remembrance of a life free from challenging moments when we smoked.  Life wasn't all roses and rainbows when we smoked cigarettes, but our addicted minds will try to make that leap anyway.        This will pass Tammy.  You're doing great.
    Tammy...I was where you are once...and I reminder a wise quitter wrote to me....    Doreen ,its OK ,if you have a wobble now and again..just make sure you don't fall over and stay down... I still remember  those words ,almost five years on....your doing just fine....
    Yes Tammy. What you're experiencing is totally normal and to be expected. I remember having like a fogginess in my brain for a while in the early part of my quit. It is all temporary and you will emerge from your quit cocoon as a beautiful, smoke-free butterfly ready to live the rest of your life in good health and with more $$ in your wallet  Keep going girl!!
Ok so for the 100th anniversary of Nelson Mandela's birth... here are some of his words that help on this journey....
        (Not nicotine, not some weaselly crave, and certainly not a cigarette... you are in charge, you call the shots, you control your destiny)
Can't remember what this was but it's gone nowEdited July 23 by notsmokinjo
    So giving this a bump for @pottanramu .     But had to have read through, like ya do.... and OMG @Tammy .... look how far you have come..... you are a champion my friend, so super proud of you and your awesome quit.         Here are some new ones:          
With a bumpy start to November thought it might be best to give everyone some positives to think about... because its never smooth sailing 100% of the time, but what you do when the sea gets rough defines you... hang on my fellow quitters the rewards are worth the short term struggles... and they are short term, they pass, it gets easier and better...
So this was part of a poem my Grandad learnt at school during the depression and was written in the back of his war diary....       If the day looks kinder gloomy, An' your chances kinder slim!   If the situation's puzzlin' An' the prospect's awful grim,  An' perplexities keep pressin'  Till all hope is nearly gone,Jus' bristle up an' grit your teeth    An' keep on keepin' on.Edited November 5, 2018 by notsmokinjo
    Noone is holding a gun to your head and making you smoke, time to change the decision.
    Free Your Head
Today, Thursday 31st May, is World No Tobacco Day.... This years theme is "Smoking Breaks Hearts"...
    So your near a pack of durries and your resolve is low and your linking about putting your hand in and getting one out???..... this is what I imagine lives in the pack...   
20 minutes ago, notsmokinjo said:               So your near a pack of durries and your resolve is low and your linking about putting your hand in and getting one out???..... this is what I imagine lives in the pack...                                  That reminds me of this commercial
     
     
     
         
        Who,s heart would you break ,if you got emphysema....????   I'll give you a hint...everyone you love .....
    and because some people learn by having a laugh....  
    The Poms at work....         
     
     
     
    Go ahead. Make today the Greatest Day of your life ............ Quit Smoking!
    What you waiting for...save your life ,jump on ..there is plenty of vacant seats..
6 hours ago, jillar said:                                   That reminds me of this commercial                                  Hey at the end how there is that smaller window for another video, how does one get rid of that?        EDIT - Not that it has anything to do with this thread but advertisements are pretty much ruining everything on the web.Edited May 30, 2018 by Jetblack
10 minutes ago, Jetblack said:                                  Hey at the end how there is that smaller window for another video, how does one get rid of that?            You can't as far as I know
    Some people just have a habit of placing the ad for another video in a way that ruins the video one is trying to watch. Anyways, thanks.
     
    Ok, Australia WINS the no-smoking ad game. 
    For some reason we are real good at doing the lecture ads... the TAC car safety ads are traumatic.
     
    Bump .... @MwBenson
Tons of videos I will hafta watch after i fi ish the war on tobacco part 3 I am on already!!
    Latest quit ads from Down Under...                   
Go on I dare you to make a choice to sacrifice a body part for that next one you are thinking of putting in your mouth! Nobody part of the body is immune from it... go on prove me wrong Oral Carcinoma  Throat  Skin  Lungs  Arteries  Eyes  Limbs  Teeth 
Brain  Heart 
NOPE
A great reminder..The horror of smoking.....it's not always the other person....
Ugh.
NOPE
Nope... what were we thinking or should I say what weren't we thinking... ntap!
Doesn't look like the magazine pictures of smokers.....they are all pretty and laughing
JEEPERS!!!  There should be a WARNING in the title!!!!!! YUK
Awww... 727 xox You're a STAR!!!
Sarge is gonna be That Guy and say this: damage is done. Some of us, even though quit, will still suffer these horrors.  Salute and honors to JWG. A quit warrior who still died of lung cancer. I owe my quit and my life to you.  We are not immune because we quit.  We are at risk because we smoked. That is all.   Easy Peasy. 
To those that haven't quit yet or relapsed... you can still benefit from quitting... the Sarge did get to keep his teeth At the very least I get to breath a little easier for the time being... the damage is already done but I refuse to go as a smoker... RIP John  Peace Out  :wub:
Awww... 727 xox You're a STAR!!!Yup indeed... hugs xx
... the Sarge did get to keep his teeth  The Sarge has permanent bone loss and will lose his teeth a decade (or more) earlier than he would have had he not smoked.    Easy Peasy
damage IS done...but..no new damage...and not going down without a fight!  :)
You live and learn... The price I pay for trying to look "cool" many years ago...
I still worry about suffering these horrors three years after quitting. Here's to hoping we don't have to go through this. My teeth are also damaged... at 28. You live, you learn. NOPE!
Didn't Skip also die from Lung Cancer, that's the thing-YES we're doomed sooner then later BUT at least we might have bought us some good yrs. Like on  that video I saw an autospy on tv & saw all that gross fat coming out of that heart artery & that's what really did it for me-I quit for good 2 months later. So yes some of us will die soon but at least we quit. Better to quit then keep puffing & speed up the death clock. :dash2: :dash2:
Every day...myself  and my two feet are still together...it's  a bonus...amputation .....how close I came...What ever time I have left....who know,s....but I'm living it in one piece....
It's better to die after living the life we've CHOSEN rather than wasting precious time feeling restricted and financially stunted!!! I don't care when I die... I only wish I KNOW so I can 'plan'/make arrangements etc... but I now I can die in PEACE!!! no one to FIND all the smoking paraphernalia, and feeling cheated, lied to, disappointed and (in my sister's case only) more lost!!
    Just a reminder of some of the horror,s smoking can cause..feel free to add to this...
35 minutes ago, Doreensfree said:               Just a reminder of some of the horror,s smoking can cause..feel free to add to this...          Never saw this, thanks for the BUMP Doreen. As bad as the pictures look the next time anyone gets a crave or an urge just look at the pictures....      NOPE!Edited June 23, 2018 by Whispers
    Me either. This is powerful sh*t !  How would any of you like to live your life with these God Awful afflictions? Come on lurkers ............ Jump on the Train RIGHT NOW! Not a moment to lose.    
    WHEW!   Just "doctored" photos of health problems of smokers.   When it said "horrific pictures" I thought it was gonna be pics or Reci and Mrtitwank's latest romance session.     Oh well, time for dinner.
    For some reason, this doesn’t bother me much. It didn’t bother me when I smoked, and it still doesn’t.  Denial? Perhaps.
        Just now, Octain said:              For some reason, this doesn’t bother me much. It didn’t bother me when I smoked, and it still doesn’t.                  Denial? Perhaps.                O !!....    I understand this....I ignored it too....until my two feet and me were nearly parted..then all of a sudden it's real....    I'm just sorry I waited until it was nearly too late...
2 hours ago, Octain said:               For some reason, this doesn’t bother me much. It didn’t bother me when I smoked, and it still doesn’t.                  Denial? Perhaps.            Or acceptance, we know what might be instore and we choose to run the risk... looking at it now and then isn't going to change the innevitable, if its meant to be its meant to be.. its a devil may care way to live your life but lots of us do it... its (on a bigger scale) like knowing the speed limit and ignoring it, because if you get caught you get caught. Sometimes I think that was the way I dealt with it. The only one that ever upset me was the baby ones.
    *bump*
    I keep getting the feeling that "Something's missing" or that I want something. Not necessarily a smoke or a vape but.....something. But theres nothing to get or have. I could go back on the sweets but I really don't want to and besides there aren't any sweets in the house. My sister and brother in law don't have sweets in the house. Yargh. I've got my ice water, gum, toothpaste and mouthwash.        Motivation: My dear Michelle    You have abused and neglected your body for your entire life thus far. Its time to take care of yourself. Every time you resist reaching for that smoke, vape or unhealthy food, you are doing right by yourself and you should be grateful and proud. Smoking and/or vaping and/or eating junk food will only make you feel worse and set back your healthy lifestyle committment more. Remember how you get such a carb crash after eating sweets, how it makes you feel bad about yourself etc. Remember how you want to research things that will help your skin look more youthful, like Loris. Even if you can't erase the smoker's lines, you can halt them. Think about that friend of yours who's face looks like a roadmap. That is your future if you return to smoking. Don't be a fat old lady in a wheelchair on oxygen, still smoking and overeating. NOW IS THE TIME while you still have a chance. So if you don't think of your health, think of your appearence and the quality of life you are setting yourself up for.     I love you,     Michelle
    Love your motivation section -- awesome and will give you help in the future-- Keep strong and soon you will be able to fill that "something" feeling.  (and yes I had the same feelings)!!!
    Stay strong Michelle, you got this!
    I love your motivation also Michelle.  Keep  telling yourself all those things.  The rewards in quitting are immense.   I do think you should treat yourself a little though.  There must be something you like to do that you don't always leave time for.  Now is the time to pamper yourself. 
Or good afternoon, depending on where you are. I'm on PST so its 8:30am. I hope everyone is doing well! I sure am! Have a great, smoke-free day!
    You are doing great Michelle.  Glad to hear you getting through the tough days.     It is afternoon here.  Rainy day but a welcome relief of the heat we have been experiencing.  
I live in Sacramento aka "Hellfire Inferno" Its dry heat but I question if it matters when its 105.     Oh yeah, I was in Alabama during the hot season. It does.
    Move along, friends, nothing to see here.....
So I’m having a lot of fatigue, shortness of breath(never had this before) I’m a little grumpy. I understand I’m going to have withdrawal symptoms. Man they are hard to deal with. I keep telling myself they will pass. I need to be strong. I’m still taking the Chantix is does help but it doesn’t stop the craving or the withdrawals. I can’t wait for the fatigue to get better so I can go to the gym. I’m so tired I’m having a hard time getting anything done. I went on a little vacation with my girlfriends over the weekend and I was beat just taking a little walk. So not use to this. I like to stay busy and I’m usually an active person. Not so much the last 3 weeks. I have totally stop smoking as of yesterday. I was up til than only smoking 3 cigarettes if that a day. I’m hoping in a couple of days a lot of this will be totally gone.
    Hi Diane, what you are experiencing is totally normal. Your body is working hard to heal from all the damage smoking has done. So if it's tired, rest. Hungry, eat. Craving sweets, eat a candy or drink some fruit juice. Just let your body dictate what it needs right now.  Many of us experience shortness of breath after quitting. I have asthma and my breathing got so much worse I was questioning why I even quit! But, it does get better. To ease your worry though it's never a bad idea to talk to your dr. about it. My cousin quit and doesn't have asthma but her Dr. gave her a rescue inhaler to use for that first month or so. She's great now.   Congrats on being past day !  
    Thanks for the info jillar! It’s nice to have a place to just vent and get things on your chest. 
    I concur with Jillar -- there are several things you will go thru the first several days off of cigarettes.  The fatigue got to me a bit -- did not expect it, what I did was rest.  Again  drink lots of fluids -- cold if you can and use deep breathing techniques they really help.  Again check out the site and all of its information as it can really help you understand what is going on.  If anything seems really out of place it cannot hurt to discuss with your doctor.  Congrats on the first day!!!!
Shortness of breath, I had it too. Mine was anxiety related. Quitting scared the hell out of me. It lasted a while, diminished and came back again. Its a proces. Do some research to what causes it, maybe visit your doctor if you dont trust it. And try concious breathing. See it as an opportunity to learn something about yourself, rather than something that has to get out of the way!       Just to clarify, have you quit 'officially' now? If so, good for you, congrats on your decision          Edited July 16 by MLMR
    These symptoms can last a while during the early days of your quit. Be patient with the process, it's a marathon not a sprint race. You WILL heal but it takes some time regardless of who your are or how long you smoked. People above have given you some good ideas of things to try to relieve some of the issues. Glad you have put the smokes down all together because that's what is required not only to break free from your addiction but as well to get through all these early quit symptoms you are experiencing. Now that you are not smoking at all, the true healing can begin  
    Diane, so glad you are finally quit.  Hunker down and stay strong.  It will be difficult for the first couple of days but so worth it.      I did sleep a lot the first couple of days but I was glad to do so.  It helped avoid the other discomforts of quitting.  I was also crabby for a couple of months.  Stay close to the forum and we will help support you along the way.   
Yes I have  officially quit no cigarettes since yesterday. Not even a puff! Im really not feel deprived of smoking. I’m having the most trouble with the habit. I wasn’t getting anything from smoking for the last couple of weeks. I really think the habit and as dumb as it might sound fear of quitting smoking as been the worst. No one like to fail and I’m no exception. I’ve been reading a lot of others stories on here since I found the site. They have helped me more than I can tell you. I’m very thankful to all of you for sharing you experiences and stories.and I’m sure I will me posting a lot in the coming weeks and months.Edited July 16 by Diane R
Congratulations on the quit.  Two quick observations...     First, maybe think about trying to force yourself to go to the gym despite the fatigue.  Sometimes exercise can be an energy producer instead of an energy consumer, and you may feel better as a result of going.  Second, definitely don't be alarmed if your energy is not back to normal in a couple of days, as you mention in your initial post of this thread.  Recovery can be a long process--and given how long most of us smoked, the toxicity of the chemicals we've ingested, and the habits we've ingrained, it would actually be surprising if this weren't the case.  Cultivate patience.       Christian99 17 1/2 Years Quit
1 hour ago, Diane R said:               Yes I have  officially quit no cigarettes since yesterday. Not even a puff!             That's fantastic Diane!  Good for you......you're doing this!
3 hours ago, Diane R said:              I’m hoping in a couple of days a lot of this will be totally gone.              Darling, this ain't going to happen.    Please, educate yourself about nicotine addiction.  Do not expect instant results, this will only lead to failure.  You are on a journey.  Take one moment, one crave at a time.    Commit yourself to NOPE, it is the only way.
    Well I would be happy if just the body aches slow down a little. I’m thinking I might just go for a massage. My shoulders and upper back are killing me. 
1 minute ago, Diane R said:             Well I would be happy if just the body aches slow down a little. I’m thinking I might just go for a massage. My shoulders and upper back are killing me.            Use the $$ you're saving from not buying cigarettes to reward your efforts in these early days and go get that massage! Perfect thing to do and it will lift your spirits too
2 hours ago, Diane R said:              Yes I have  officially quit no cigarettes since yesterday. Not even a puff!                 Good to hear.  Congratulations.     You are beginning a process that will reward you many times over.       Proceed.
Thanks guys. Boo so right I will be rewarded with a longer healthier life! And a  massage   Edited July 16 by Diane R
3 hours ago, Diane R said:              Yes I have  officially quit no cigarettes since yesterday. Not even a puff!             That is awesome, Diane.  Great job.     What you are going through is normal with new quitters.  Most of us have gone through this.         The first days are the toughest but it does get much better with time.  And, as long as you commit to never taking another puff, you will not have to go through those first few days again.        You are doing a great thing by putting smoking behind you.
    My withdrawals are getting better. Still have a little fatigue. The  body aches are much better. Still have the worst headaches though. But it is getting better. I know when it’s all said and done I will feel great. 
    Good job Diane -- congrats on the past few days!!  It slowly gets better -- just remember to stay close.  Keep focused and strong!!!!!
    Thanks Martian I will stay close. Been on and off all day. And thinking about all the reason I have to stay a non smoker!
    You're doing awesome Diane, I had a bunch of quit withdrawals too including fatigue, extreme shortness of breath, bleeding gums and my tongue was so sore lol.  But I still remember the morning I woke up in the best mood I had been in in years and realized all that misery was worth it 
3 hours ago, Diane R said:              My withdrawals are getting better. Still have a little fatigue. The  body aches are much better. Still have the worst headaches though. But it is getting better. I know when it’s all said and done I will feel great.                 Diane, are you still having shortness of breath ?   Please pay attention to any symptoms.       This is from the FDA Drug Safety site,  "Patients taking Chantix should contact their health care professional  if they experience new or worsening symptoms of cardiovascular disease, such as chest pain, shortness of breath,    calf pain when walking, or sudden onset of weakness,    numbness, or difficulty speaking.   Patients should also contact their health care professional if they have any questions or concerns "        Here is more information from Chantix       Stay aware and alert.       I was so excited that you had quit, I forgot you were on Chantix.   There are more complicated things to be aware of with a drug like that. You may be experiencing things that have nothing to do with quitting smoking    and everything to do with taking Chantix.            Edited July 19 by Sazerac
Sazerac thanks for the info i’m  aware of the side effects of Chantix. I don’t have heart problems. I’ve reduced my Chantix I 1 day. I’m going to stop taking it in the next couple of weeks. I don’t think I need it for a full 3 months. I’m always aware of what’s going on with my body. I only have a little shortness of breath. No signs of a heart attack. I’m not sure if I  mentioned  I have type 1  diabetes. I was Diagnosed 3 years ago. I see doctors all the time. Just went to my doctor 1 week ago. No heart problems blood pressure is good. They keep a good eye on heart  disease as a diabetic I’m at a higher risk for it.
@Diane R, years ago I quit for three weeks using chantix and quit taking it after a month and almost instantly started smoking again. So I would really recommend staying on it for the suggested three months. I'm just speaking from experience.....
    Thanks jillar did you use it this time?
    No, this time I went cold turkey. My attitude wasn't very good on the chantix lol
4 hours ago, Diane R said:               I’m going to stop taking it in the next couple of weeks. I don’t think I need it for a full 3 months.              Hi Diane, I am no expert in Chantix, wouldnt know if thats the wisest thing to do (quit early). Like Jillar said, Ive also heard from people who went straight back to smoking after quitting the program early.        I went cold turkey, but I did have some time frame in mind. No worries about over-eating the first month, shifting focus to exercize only after 6 months (i tried walking daily though, from the 2nd month or so), making sure I celebrated every milestone and counting weeks on a calender. I wanted to have a grip on my first year and I was well aware of all the triggers/patterns (both daily, seasonal, mental and many others) to overcome. This time frame helped me a great deal. I am not one for NRT's, but I can imagine that the programs that often come with it, like with Champix or patches, can be helpful. Working towards something.      Do you have some kind of plan, or will you just go with the flow?
I have quit before. I just stayed busy and I did start going to the gym. I plan on that again. When I smoke I can’t do all the workouts I like. I love spin classes but no way you can do that and be a smoker. Of course I changed the place I went. In the  beginning I just made it hard to find places to smoke. That helps if I’m out having a few drinks with friends. Most of my friends don’t smoke. So that is helpful. Even when I smoke I don’t like the smell and I can always smell it. When I don’t smoke I can really smell everything so much better. I went out with a few friends that at the time where smokers and it was a bar you could smoke in. The is how I started again too many drinks and friends with cigarettes that didn’t talk me down. Today I don’t go out drinking like I did than. One I can’t drink like that now. I have type 1 diabetes. Two I’m 12 year older so out drinking like that doesn’t do it for me. I’ve made a lot of life style changes. So this is the last one. So I guess I’m just doing the things I know worked last time.
     
    Sazerac believe me I know it wasn’t a successful quit. I think I learned I can just a one. And I have no  intention on go though this again. No fun and I have better things to do with my time than put those nasty little needy things in my mouth again.          
    Lol wrong link but I like that one too       
    How are you doing @Diane R ?
    I’m doing good. Still smoke free. I still think about smoking of course but I’m able to find something esle to do instead. 
https://shop.thetruth.com/products/tr-nope-tee-mustard       
    Notsmokingjo made a NOPE shirt for herself every month her whole first year 
    I still have to give ya photos...
    Nancy bought a gold bracelet and had NOPE engraved on it ....very nice ...
    I might have to get one of those
    Hello all,  Please I need your help, support.   I want to quit again ... I’m struggling with making this decision, scared of making decision ... shall i do it now or tomorrow..?   I’ve done it several times before: each time was different. Sometimes it was a huge struggle sometimes easier .. Once i even thought: OK i am quitting the last time: if it works great, if it doesn’t ... let it be.. I was so tired of going through it, that I was ready to accept it if I had failed ..     but here I am and I don’t want to accept it ... it is so self- destructive .. so against the human nature .. I feel horrible.. i feel guilty, frustrated, and angry at myself ..        Just a thought of quitting makes me panic and make grab another one . ... just as if I wanted to store as much as possible in me ..     haha ... how absurd..       I had some good excuses why I started again .. but I know I didn’t have to - it was self pity or self distraction..         Please help me with starting ... and I will keep going ...  the words: "you can do it"  can do miracles..       all the best to all of you - keep on ..  
Welcome aboard Edy!!! You can quit smoking whenever you want to, but keep in mind that the sooner you quit, the better. Write down your reasons for quitting and keep the list of reasons to remind yourself why you quit. Also, think about why you went back to smoking and learn from past mistakes, so that you don't go back to smoking again. Take the NOPE pledge a day at a time. Post an SOS when you need to and stay close to the board. Here's the thread on posting an SOS:     https://www.quittrain.com/topic/8-posting-an-sos/      You will get plenty of good advice and motivation from the people on QuitTrain. All the best!!!Edited July 17 by Ankush
Welcome, Edy.       Forget about past experiences. Instead focus on the 'now'. Now is where you want (and can!) quit. It is doable, just as much for you, as for anyone else.       You ask, shall I quit today or shall I quit tomorrow? My advise would be, make up your own mind about that. Take matters into your own hands, it's empowering! Lean on us for support along the way, that's what the board is here for.     There is plenty to be scared of.. but, actually, there isn't. Because you will find your way and you will discover how strong you really are.       Let us know what you decide!         Edited July 17 by MLMR
    tomorrow ...    thank you both.. i am already totally stressed and irritated .. and feel that cribbeling  .. therefor i think it is regardless smoking .. and smoking may make it actually worse .. 
    You can do this Edy!!! The Addict in us is not going to let go willing!! We HAVE to fight!!! It is the ONLY way out!!!! Please reconsider your decision.  Decide not to decide for one hour
Edy, you must be willing to change  and you must be willing to honor the commitment to Not One Puff Ever (even just for NOW, one minute at a time). This is a commitment to yourself.  Quitting isn't that hard, it is just the addict's voice that is lying to you.    You Can Quit.  We quit !  Believe just a little bit.    I am glad you found us. Have a stroll through this thread 10 Ways To Effectively Use This Forum To Quit Smoking
    Edy welcome aboard.  Just focus on the here and now then make the commitment to quit -- one day at a time.  Then come here often to educate and socialize -- it will truly help!!!!!
    Welcome Edy, planning a quit date is stressful, especially once it arrives. That's why for me it worked better to prepare instead of plan. By that I mean I quit smoking in places I normally smoked. I also waited just a few minutes more from the regular times I normally smoked.   When the day did arrive that I decided not to buy anymore and just be done it made going into those areas and doing those things much easier. I didn't instantly crave a smoke. Glad you've decided to take back your life. We will be here as much as you need or want to help you  
        Quote               I had some good excuses why I started again             This is thinking you need to be rid of.
Anticipation is way worse than actually doing. That applies to most life situations you don't really want to do but know you must do. Jump in, all in and stay on the forum for education and support. That will help you. Quitting won't kill you but continuing to smoke just might. One day at a time my friend. It IS possible for anyone to quit!Edited July 18 by reciprocity
    Welcome aboard ,    The time to quit is now ,why put more posion into your body .   Now is the right time ,we will help you along your journey ..glad you found us !!!
12 hours ago, Edy said:             i am already totally stressed and irritated .               Anticipation and worry leading up to an event are often more troublesome than the event itself.     There will be challenging moments starting a quit.  Moments that are temporary and fleeting.        You'll live to tell about it and eventually realize the only regret you have about quitting is that you didn't do it sooner.        Take a deep breath and set yourself free.
Welcome Edy.  I truly hope you decide to stay and start that quit.  You can feel your desperation in your post.     I smoked for 42 years and never felt that I could quit.  I was ashamed and afraid that I could not quit.  I finally found freedom on this forum.  You can too.  Just make the commitment.  We are here for you.
On 7/17/2019 at 1:32 PM, Edy said:              tomorrow ... @Edy Good, thats today!     How is it going so far? Counting hours, or is it doable? Stay in touch!         Edited July 18 by MLMR
    Thank you , thank you all!    ..  the day one has began for me .. I am just trying to make myself busy... and concrete on something different that’s why I didn’t respond so far .. I will try to survive till the evening and then I will reflect... that’s the plan...  
Thanks for checking in. You kept your promiss to yourself and have started this journey         Do whatever it takes today. You will reach the end of today 1 in one piece! Take care!
@Edy Try taking the NOPE pledge, that may help you further to take things a day at a time.
    Congratulations, @Edy, on your First Day of Freedom !   NOPE your way through each moment.  Remember craves are not a command.  You have Choice.        Our friend, Joel Spitzer's Videos may help you, they helped me.Daily Quitting Lesson Guide
    Congrats on the first day Edy -- focus on one day at a time, deep breathing, cold water and doing the daily NOPE pledge it will help as well as coming here often!!!!
    Congratulations @Edy you did it!!  That's it, just small step.
    Stay strong and focused Edy.  Just get through today for now.
    Glad you quit Edy! Best thing you could ever do. Hang in there today. You CAN do it!
Yay Edy, congrats on day 1
    Yaa eat to go Edy...    How you doing ?
     
Good morning/evening to all,    it is a day 4!  .. and I am actually doing good ...i am not struggling as much i did in the past..  which is strange..  it makes me feel:   - embarrassed: why was i postponing it for so long .. and was panicking about the quit      On 7/18/2019 at 1:31 AM, Boo said:              Anticipation and worry leading up to an event are often more troublesome than the event itself.         exactly!!       - embarrassed also because.. i am wondering why am i so privileged to have it easier than others ..  feeling sorry for others ..    - anxious that the addiction is not manifesting right now as expected and normal..  but it will hit me later when i am less cautious..  - as it is being a relatively easy quit .. i may just think .. oh.. i have no problem .. i can do it any time .. .. and will relapse again ..       today was actually somehow the hardest day so far .. more cravings and i felt like crying  ... not sure if it is due to quitting or life itself ..
Fantastic job on day 4 -- you are doing great.  Glad that you posted what you felt, hopefully it will help keep you focused and understand that the cravings can sneak up on you.  As to this being the hardest day just keep committed and if need be come back here especially if you need to post an SOS.  You are doing good -- pat yourself on the back!!!!
    Edy you are doing great.  I think the two are intertwined (life and quitting).  If things were going bad in my life,  I would be chain smoking.     As I look back on my quit journey, it does not seem so bad.  There were bad moments but wonderful support.  
    Congrats on day four Edy, that's great! 
13 hours ago, Edy said:             today was actually somehow the hardest day so far .. more cravings and i felt like crying  ... not sure if it is due to quitting or life itself ..          Quitting can produce similar effects to grieving a personal loss. Denial & isolation, anger, bargaining, depression and finally acceptance. Quitting is a huge life change so don't be concerned that your emotions are all over the place early on. Just focus on staying quit 1 hour at a time. Setting small goals will get you there in the end.
    You're doing great @Edy hang in there!!!!
    Each quit is different, Edy.    Be grateful you are having a relatively easy time   and stay vigilant.  You may have triggers that seem to come out of nowhere. NOPE your way through them, breathe your way through them and reward yourself for conquering them.  You are doing great.
    Stay on your guard ...that sneaky Nico Monster can spring up anytime ...
    ...I just caught a nice, deep, delicious breath, without having to try hard and concentrate!
    Fantastic -- and it only gets better day by day, hold on to that!!!!
Can someone tell me where it is? Cuz believe me I have a great picture LOLEdited July 21 by MichelleDoesntSmokeAnymoreaddding to it
    It is the first one in the Off The Record Forum If you are following me, I just posted there.
    It can be helpful when you quit, to imagine your quit like this:            This allegory is completely correct in every way possible that you can imagine what the reality of quitting smoking really is.      Of course the Grim Reaper is still a smoker.....and you are not any longer......so the longer you keep your quit the more faster you can run than him.          Cristóbal
    haw haw great post!
This morning I awoke and my first thoughts were about coffee and a cigarette.  Incredibly, I started rationalizing that maybe the worsening of my eyesight in my right eye was from something like eye strain, something temporary. I stepped back 20 feet from the eye sight testing chart I bought on Amazon and taped onto my door and tested my eyes. 20/70 at best with my right eye. No change with left eye. The results of the chart triggered a cascade of reasons I quit for.  I felt some relief that I could feel good about the improvements in my health that might be possible when I stay quit.         All the while I smoked in the past, I said to myself that, "my father was "healthy" and smoked since he was in his late teens"--and he was around 80-85 at the time. He got prostate cancer somewhere in there, but survived.  The irrational addictive thought was, "If I get cancer after 50 years of smoking, it' won't be a tragedy, it'll be a miracle!" (I'd be 120 years old.)  What an idiot.       My father had quit the moment he had the diagnosis and the doctor said, "quit or die." It wasn't until later that he was diagnosed with emphysema. I used to visit him most Sundays for an hour in the last few years of his life. I watched the disease take hold ever stronger and suffocate him. He was 91 when he passed away 10 months ago, his body like a skeleton with skin stretched over them -- emphysema made it difficult for him to eat anything in his last year.        Somewhere in my mind I was thinking, "I'll quit before any cancer or other disease becomes a problem." The darkening color of my toes in the winter--they'd be better in the summer--it was just the cold weather. The pressure in my chest when I climbed stairs--just need to start walking.  The varicose veins that cause my legs to swell--vascular surgery. The way my facial skin has aged, taking me from looking 40 into my 50s, to looking early 70s in my 60s. In my addictive haze, I rationalized that I could stop or reverse anything that assailed me.      How crazy is our thinking when we smoke, mine, anyway. Dr Abraham Twersky wrote a book called Addictive Thinking. He wrote about how an addict skews cause and effect, attributing a problem or problems to anything but the addictive substance. In these early days of quitting, when I'm still craving, I'll have to reread it to reinforce my understanding of the lies of the part of my mind that wants nicotine.
Oh Kate.  Hang in there.  I also made all those excuses,  but when I turned 60, I knew it was inevitable that I would get a smoking related illness.    I really think you have been mentally preparing yourself for this quit.  Keep educating yourself and stay close.  We are here to help you through.      Keep looking past those craves to the power and freedom you will receive when quit.
    Here is Joel Spitzer'sDay Two of Quitting Smoking.      Going through Joel's lessons are a great way to get through your first days.    Education really inspired me.       You must also reward yourself for every crave you conquer.  Many of my rewards were taking a delicious breath of oxygen, listening to a piece of music, acknowledging beauty in some way.   This helps to re-claim your brain receptors from nicotines grasp.       Stay true to your commitment to NOPE, and Never Take Another Puff, you will win.    It gets easier.  You are in the slog right now as nicotine leaves your body, Forever.   Glad you are here.
    Keep posting Kate and keep reminding yourself of all those reasons you have to stay quit. Stay close, I really think we're your missing link to get past the hurdles that cause you to fail each time. Use us to help you past the tough times!  
    Kate,   Please post an SOS if you feel like you are hitting a wall. Many of us are alerted when a post is made in SOS and will be there as soon as possible so, wait for us !   Also, posting a pre-response to your own SOS is really helpful. It reminds you of why you quit and helps us help you with your own words and thoughts.Pre-Respond to your own SOS.       
All﻿ the while I smoked in the past, I said to myself that, "my father was "healthy" and smoked since he was in his late teens﻿"--and he was around 80-85 at the time. He got prostate cancer somewhere in there, but survived.  The irrational ﻿addictive thought was, "If I get cancer after 50 years of smoking, it' won't be a tragedy, it'll be a miracle!" (I'd be 120 years old      There are millions of smokers who have died far to young ...for every one old person ...you will be surprised at the beniefts of not smoking ..it effects every part of your body..I have more energy now ,then when I was in my forties ...    Stay close here Kate...
    Hi Kate,    i’m in The same boat. I just quit a few days ago. I still think about smoking when I first wake up. I’ve changed the way I have my morning coffee. And the place too. You can do this! This week has been hard with the  lovely parting gifts smoking has left me to deal with while my body works to undo all the damage. But this morning I’m feeling better. Just one day at a time. I can I will I must! My new motto. 
    The early morning was tough on me also -- when I had the strongest craves for a cigarette with a cup of coffee.  I went a hard way to combat and I drank cold juice or water first thing in the morning then deep breathing (I would also use the Jillar Air Cigarette also).  And yes I went all stupid and quit coffee at the same time, I knew that would be a huge trigger for me. It was very tough the first couple of weeks but I got thru it and the morning crave faded the fastest of all the other craves since I focused on it so much and since it was the biggest trigger for me it gave me the confidence to conquer all other craves.  And yes I have not had a cup of coffee since I quit smoking, very hard to believe!!!!!
Oh my I love my coffee drink it all day. I’ve had to give up a lot my things due to my type 1 diabetes. I can’t even think about giving up my coffee too. You are brave Martian
10 minutes ago, Diane R said:               Oh my I love my coffee drink it all day. I’ve had to give up a lot my things due to my type 1 diabetes. I can’t even think about giving up my coffee too. You are brave Martian                 Not brave, kind of stupid -- and drastic, I really wanted to succeed and I kind of went all out -- anything to quit.  I am really surprised that I really do not miss coffee at all any more but it was tough at the time!!!
The mornings were tough for me too, Kate, but things did get better.        You are doing a great job of expressing what you are experiencing.  That helps you better understand what you are going through and also helps others early in their quits.  Keep doing this as I believe it will help you.     Also, congratulations on making it to day 2.  These early milestones really are huge and I hope you realize that.  Just keep taking it one day at a time and you will get there.Edited July 20 by johnny5
My three biggest triggers were alcohol, coffee, and food (after a meal).   I didn't drink alcohol for the first 3 months because I didn't need anything to make quitting any harder; I couldn't stop eating so instead I ate more; but, like Diane, I decided I would not give up my beloved all day coffee.  I was very happily surprised when I found that I still enjoyed drinking coffee without a cigarette and it actually became a bit of a life raft in my sea of abstinence. I guess I just need to have at least one active vice at any given time.   Interestingly, when I started drinking alcohol again after 3 months (although I was still definitely craving cigarettes), I found that having a drink was not only still enjoyable, but also helped ease by cigarette cravings at that point in my quit -- but I don't think it would have at the very beginning.  Cheers and hang in there, the things you love will still be lovable when the smoke clears.
On 7/20/2019 at 9:07 AM, Kate18 said:               All the while I smoked in the past, I said to myself that, "my father was "healthy" and smoked since he was in his late teens"--and he was around 80-85 at the time. He got prostate cancer somewhere in there, but survived.  The irrational addictive thought was, "If I get cancer after 50 years of smoking, it' won't be a tragedy, it'll be a miracle!" (I'd be 120 years old.)  What an idiot.                                   I know you know better now, Kate but, I am including this video for others who may still harbor that thought.               Congratulations on keeping your quit !
    Hello everyone,  since most have you have a much longer quit than me what are the things that stop you from letting that nasty   addiction creep back into your life? 
"What are things that help you stay a non smoker ?"     I have chosen to never ever smoke again and I stand by that commitment every day.   Continuing my education about nicotine addiction also feeds my quit.        Addiction doesn't 'creep back in'   we make a conscious choice to smoke or never take another puff.Edited July 19 by Sazerac
    Fear....    When I arrived here. I was in fear of having my feet amputated.....due to smoking.. Quitting when I did ...I avoided this ...   Why would I go back there ..not a chance ....
    Doreen thanks a good reason for sure! 
When I quit, it was primarily out of frustration with the cigarettes being in control of my life.  I was sick and tired of being a slave to the smokes.  With that in mind, any time the voice of addiction was trying to convince me that "just one" would do the trick I thought beyond the "one" and saw where it would lead.  One turns to two.  Two leads to three.  And so on.  I knew if I smoked one, I would be right back at 25-30 per-day.  And recognizing that I would have ceded control of my life back to the smokes, that would have meant that I would be constantly thinking about how desperately I needed to quit.     Sometimes breaking the cycle is a simple matter of putting your head down and continuing forward progress.  Once I had a couple of days under my belt, I figured since I was already on the right trail I might as well keep on hiking.
     I just remember how I felt just before I quit smoking -- that can help.  One thing I do is still come here daily to read and to do the daily NOPE pledge so that I keep my focus and commitment to not ever smoking again and that has been a game changer.  Also remember to you have to remain ever vigilant to the voices of addiction (as Boo calls it) because the nicodemon  is always calling out to you -- the good thing is that the longer you are quit it gets harder and harder to hear or pay attention to that voice. And answering questions like this that may come up (good question by the way) helps keep my mind in the right place!!!!!
    Finding a forum with people who understood what I was going through was instrumental in helping me. Doing the NOPE pledge daily and continually telling myself that all good(?) things must come to an end really helped keep my mind on the prize.
2 hours ago, Boo said:              When I quit, it was primarily out of frustration with the cigarettes being in control of my life.  I was sick and tired of being a slave to the smokes.  With that in mind, any time the voice of addiction was trying to convince me that "just one" would do the trick I thought beyond the "one" and saw where it would lead.  One turns to two.  Two leads to three.  And so on.  I knew if I smoked one, I would be right back at 25-30 per-day.  And recognizing that I would have ceded control of my life back to the smokes, that would have meant that I would be constantly thinking about how desperately I needed to quit.                                     Sometimes breaking the cycle is a simple matter of putting your head down and continuing forward progress.  Once I had a couple of days under my belt, I figured since I was already on the right trail I might as well keep on hiking.             This.   My thoughts exactly
    Thanks everyone. It never hurts to have as many way to stay a non smoker that you can get. I don’t like. To be controlled by anything and cigarettes have Certainly done that to me for many years. It’s time I take back my time. Geez when I think about all the things I’ve missed because I was smoking.
    Another thing that helped me, especially with really bad craves, was my JAC (jillars air cigarette). I just pretended I was holding an actual cigarette in my fingers and then went through the motions of "smoking" it. Some use cut straws, pens, etc.
    ^^^^^Yes this, when I read about Jillar's air cigarette I made one right away and it really helped -- great idea!!!!!
A support forum like this one.  It really gave me a sense of accountability in my quit and wound up making quitting a much more enjoyable experience (something I didn't think possible).       I also read Allen Carr's The Easy Way to Quit Smoking.  Some people don't like that book but it really helped me realize that smoking did nothing positive for you at all and that quitting is one of the best things you can do.  I still wouldn't call it an "easy way" but that book helped me and many others.      I smoked for 20 years.  The first 10 years, it was a very sociable experience.  The longer I smoked, though, the more of my smoking friends either quit or I lost track of.  I eventually grew to think of smoking as living under a dark cloud (literally and figuratively) of negativity, isolation and poison.  I wanted out of that.  When quitting, I really tried to focus on the positive.       In time, you will see that smoking does absolutely nothing positive for you whatsoever.  There is no negative in quitting.  It can be tough but it is worth it.Edited July 19 by johnny5
    I use twizzlers hold them like a cigarette. Take a little bite yummm
5 hours ago, Diane R said:              what are the things that stop you from letting that nasty   addiction creep back into your life?                It takes absolutely no effort now to remain smoke free.  I have zero desire to smoke.  Ever.        After 39 years as a smoker I didn't think it would ever be possible to get to that point, but it is.  You'll get there Diane.  Just keep going.
    Not feeling that cigs are controlling my life was a factor and the bad feeling when you have to find a reason to slip out or just get away from a group of friends to take a smoke.
    Recognizing that Junkie Thinking is nothing more than a brain pattern at work. Crying receptors.        It takes time  but it is trainable.         The emotional side of the Junkie Thinking needs attention too, but rather in a constructive way: Ask yourself, am I Hungry Angry Lonely or Tired? (HALT).
    It's hard to explain...but basically it's a mind set thing...when I quit this time I sort of just fell into it. I have a previous very long quit that I planned. Even though I stayed quit for years last time I was still thinking like the junky I was, focussing on what I was missing, and searching daily for a reason I could justify smoking again...for years... This time... Didn't plan to quit, just did it to sorta test meself but the big difference.... I don't even think about smoking anymore it doesn't tempt me ...and the big difference, I decided I would never smoke again, there is no reason that will make it acceptable. But it took time to get to this point.     Confession:  few months ago I had a really bad day at work...man I wanted a smoke...I smoke would fix it...went across the road to the cafe and bought some chew, just normal gum not NRT, and chewed my way through the day. Crave gone.       And being completely honest...I am terrified that if I did smoke I would loose the friends I made after quitting.
Well I would hope people wouldn’t stop being for friends for that reason. This time I had be thinking about quitting for a long time and I just had my doctor write the script for Chantix. I had it for over 2 weeks before I started taking it. Not knowing if I really believed it would work. I didn’t set a quit date. I just thought I see what happens. And after about the 3rd day I found myself not smoking as much. Til one day I didn’t really need the cigarettes after I lite them and I just put them out. But still I decided not to put too much pressure on myself to set a date. I found this site and than I set a day I would try to on Monday. Well I did quit but not til Monday night. I had 2 cigarettes Monday and I haven’t smoked since. I still find myself thinking I would be having a smoke while I wait to do this or that, but I find I can just not do it. I hope it stays this way. I know there will be times I think a cigarette would make me feel better. But I’m lying to myself I know it won’t and I’ll just me mad at myself for letting that little cancer stick control me once again. I can I will I must.
12 minutes ago, notsmokinjo said:                                   And being completely honest...I am terrified that if I did smoke I would loose the﻿﻿﻿ friends I made ﻿after quitting.               Then they're not really friends because true friends are there for the good or bad.... And will help pick you back up when you fall!
    I know me mates wouldn't snub me if I smoked, but I will admit, especially early on, I stoked that fear and used it to keep me not smoking.         Congrats @Diane R for being smoke free since mundee. That is brilliant. 
    Now the trick is to not get another vice to take the place of smokes! I’m trying not too. 
    Not smokin jo it is my dream to come to  Australia. It’s one of my big bucket list place to go! And I love  the  accents
    What accents, we don't have accents, everyone else does ..lol, joke Joyce.      Australia is the greatest place on earth (not biased)... and when you get down here you will love it. Just plan well it's the same size almost as the USA so unless you come for a long time you won't manage to see everything..it's a huge place. Wait that gives me an idea....get one of those money tins or jars and each week put the money you would have used to buy ya smokes in there....before you know it you'll have some of you coming to Australia money...two bucket list items for one, Visiting Aus and being Smoke Free.
     
    Thanks Sazerac. I really don’t want to replace smoking with anything. I’m working are not to. 
Yay five days! This is an app I have on my phone. It helps me remember when why I quit and I love these cool badges Edited July 20 by Diane R
5 minutes ago, Diane R said:                Yay five days!              That is awesome, Diane!  Keep up the great work!
    Thanks Johnny! I’m starting to feel human again lol. I’ve been stay in my little cave for the most part. Think I’ll try and get out tonight for a while.
    Great job Diane, I stayed close to home for almost my first month because I didn't trust myself to not stop at a store! 
    I have found that deep breathing exercises are a good sub for cigs and can help during a crave and also down the road for health. You can get this quit Diane R! Best wishes.
On 7/19/2019 at 11:28 AM, Diane R said:             Hello everyone,                  since most have you have a much longer quit than me what are the things that stop you from letting that nasty   addiction creep back into your life?               Hi Diane,       You already know what to do, to not smoke again. You just do not smoke.     You were not born as a smoker, so your brain in both conscious and inconscious manners has memory of how life was without cigarettes.       Just because you learned how to be a smoker, does not mean that forever you are to be a slave to the addiction.     It takes time for your brain to return to handling life without cigarettes, but it will. It did it before you became a smoker, and it will do it again now that you have quit. Just be patient, and most important thing is to not be afraid of nicotine addiction. It is not a monster hiding and waiting to get you. It has no intelligence. And no power. You control the it 100%. As long as you do not put nicotine in your body again, it will stay asleep.       Cristóbal
    Thanks everyone for the great advice! I went out tonight had a few drinks and dinner, than went over to the beach and listen to a band had a couple of drinks. People where smoking it didn’t bother me in the least. I’m no longer a smoker. I will not pick up any thing put it in my mouth and lite it on fire. Grant it you can’t smoke in a restaurant so that was no problem. But you can smoke outside where the band was playing. I think I did a good job of not smoking. Baby steps. I can’t hide in the house forever. 
    Well done D !!! The more you do it ,the easier it gets ...feel proud ....you did great !!!!
    Awesome Diane, glad you had a good, smoke free, time. Your First of many....  
@Diane R Was going to suggest to avoid alcohol for the first two weeks. But you made it through a drinking session. Way to go!!! You're doing great
    I only had a few drinks with dinner. I feel like I have to put myself out there. The world isn’t going to change because I stopped smoking. If I got  i’m comfortable at anytime I would have just left. But it really didn’t bother me. 
Hi ya!  I've been a smoker for longer than I like to admit.  I have quit a few times in the past using different techniques all with varying lengths of success.  I have been determined to quit and free myself for good for a few months now.  I purchased Allen Carr's book EasyWay for women to quit smoking, Bootcamp, and Quit Now all on audio.  I've listened to all 3 books numerous times but I found no success.  I let a bit of time pass and last week I listened to Bootcamp again.  I got so much out of it this time....so many Ah ha moments.  I understood more, saw what he was saying, and found truth in what I was listening to.  I was so stoked to crush my final cigarette.  I was so amazed there was absolutely no withdrawal pangs.  No depression.  No anger.  I was great! I was happy!  Then out of the blue I lit a cigarette (30 some hrs of being free).  I had no cravings to do this, no triggers, no stress.  I have no idea why I did this.  I went back to listening to Bootcamp again and I have no Ah Ha moments.  I understand since I've listened to this a few times it will be anti-climatic but I can't find what I missed that made me light up again.  Why?  Has anybody had a similar situation?  Any suggestions?  I did contact EasyWay and was told to listen again in 1 sitting but never received any insight as to what I am missing to free me from this slavery. Thanks!!!
    Welcome peeper glad you came aboard.  As to Allen Carr's books there is great information though I only read part of Quit Now, I really used this site way more for education and socialization and it helped greatly.  I never did have an Ah Ha moment -- I just realized I needed to quit and made a commitment and focused one day at a time.  I also realized I had to stay vigilant those first few weeks.  It is hard but it can be done.  Coming here can help you -- take time to review the site and some of the stories -- it really will help!!!
17 minutes ago, peeper said:                I was so stoked to crush my final cigarette.  I was so amazed there was absolutely no withdrawal pangs.  No depression.  No anger.  I was great! I was happy!  Then out of the blue I lit a cigarette (30 some hrs of being free).  I had no cravings to do this, no triggers, no stress.  I have no idea why I did this.               Addiction and conditioning combine to make smoking a cigarette your default setting.  On day two of a quit, it can require a deliberative mental effort to refrain from lighting up.  You were just beginning the process, it takes time and repetition before not smoking becomes your new normal.     All of the programs, books, and information can facilitate the process of quitting.  However, quitting smoking is and will always be a simple matter of not putting things in your mouth and setting them on fire.      Rule One: Don't Smoke!  Rule Two: If you have any further questions, refer back to Rule One.
Welcome Peepers.  I never had an ah ha moment either.    I smoked for 42 years and tried everything to quit.  I was not successful until I found this forum.  I lurked for a while and even joined thinking I would never quit but something miraculous happened.  Supporters on this forum knew exactly how to guide me through my journey.    There are some tough moments in the beginning, as you rid yourself of the nicotine, then you learn to redirect your thinking.  I set my sights on looking forward and not backwards.    Quitting smoking is the best thing you can do for yourself.  I hope we can help you find your freedom from smoking.
    Welcome peepers, like the others I didn't have an aha moment either but knew I needed to quit. First thing to do: THROW OUT ANY CIGARETTES!!! You can't smoke what you don't have! Also, being with others who knew what I was going through and could offer insight helps unbelievable well. Stick close, we can help you through those tough moments  
Hello peeper !  Welcome to our merry band of quitters !     A eureka moment is not necessary to have a successful quit.     The only thing you are missing is making the commitment to yourself to never take another puff.     Not One Puff Ever (moment by moment, day to day....)        Sure, you may have some gruesome moments but, education about nicotine addiction    will help you understand and live through them as a Free person.        This post may help you negotiate your way around.10 Ways To Effectively Use This Forum
I remember reading a piece about this exact topic,  in which the question was something like, will I be able to quit without having some motivational kickstart, a true belief of succeeding. Hmm, cant remember where that was.        I was disappointed myself, when a book id read  prior to this quit, didnt do a thing for me. The realization though,  that I was externalising and not taking responsability for starting my quit, eventually led to that same start.       You know your reasons. Trust in the proces, you'll probably have plenty epiphanies coming your way!      Edited July 18 by MLMR
Thanks to all for your input but I am confused....above says to check out 10 ways to use this forum effectively. I checked it out and it says to read Easyway which I have already done. Easyway talks about no withdrawal symptoms (anger / cravings / substitutes etc) yet when I read the first few days most talk about fighting cravings, it so difficult, what was used to get through the cravings etc.  This is exactly the opposite of Easyway.  I'm not sure who or what I am suppose to follow.
    I didn't read Easy Way peepers but I can tell you that mindset plays a big part in how your quit goes. My first few months were pretty hard but I also dwelled on how hard it was. Others who were just done smoking had a much easier time. I quit because my health was suffering and had to. It wasn't so much wanting to as it was being ready to, if that makes sense. Maybe someone who's read the book will comment to your question. I don't see though how anyone gets away from cigarettes without some sort of withdrawal/recovery symptoms...    
There are many paths to the center.     The point of providing choices is;  everybody is different and will build their quit in their own unique way.   Some swear by Alan Carr,  others resonate with Joel Spitzer,    some find guidance through other quitting methods.      I quit cold turkey, that is my experience but, there are many successful quitters here who found NRT's helpful.     There is NO one way, no right way,  no magic bullet, except tocommit to never taking another puff,  and it has been my experience,  that educating myself about nicotine addiction,  especially the science of it,  helped me understand what I was going through and empowered me to keep my quit.     I read Alan Carr, watched all of Joel Spitzer's videos and lurked here and there to learn everything I could.   I am still learning.        I just want to add that quitting smoking is a personal journey and one that will provide numerous benefits, not only health, & wealth but an honest trust and confidence in yourself.    Edited July 18 by Sazerac
    ^ just like with how we have a cuppa we are all different.. saddly there is no miracle cure, the only consistent thing with all former smokers is we decided to take back control in our lives ...we choose not to put something in out mouths and set it on fire.
@peeper you lasted 30 hours without a smoke, so what did you learn? You learnt you can not smoke for a while day, and in your own words it was easy. So break it down, just quit for one day, you know you can do that...you already did...then the next morning when you wake up just quit for that day, only focus on not smoking for that day. The point is you only focus on 24 hours, one day, and you know that you can totally nail that. Don't worry about yesterday, forget about tomorrow...the only thing you can control is the now and in the now you do not smoke.
    ^^^^^What Joe says -- focus on one day at a time and if need be one hour at a time.  As said by others above this is a personal journey that we have all gone thru and can be different from others.  There will be tough times and we very well may be able to help guide you on the journey but the work is up to you, again commit and focus!!!
    Sounds to me like you're missing true commitment. Commitment to not buy cigarettes, posses cigarettes and smoke cigarettes. Books, videos and quit aid products are all well and fine but it always boils down to personal commitment to quit smoking. Without that commitment, you can not be successful!
2 hours ago, peeper said:               Thanks to all for your input but I am confused....above says to check out 10 ways to use this forum effectively. I checked it out and it says to read Easyway which I have already done. Easyway talks about no withdrawal symptoms (anger / cravings / substitutes etc) yet when I read the first few days most talk about fighting cravings, it so difficult, what was used to get through the cravings etc.  This is exactly the opposite of Easyway.  I'm not sure who or what I am suppose to follow.              I read Easyway and consider it to have been a valuable tool in building the foundation for my quit.  I also had withdrawal symptoms.  There were a few occasions when I considered throwing in the towel and just lighting one up.      I gathered information from a variety of sources including: Allen Carr's book, Joel Spitzer's videos, and posts here at QuitTrain.  I viewed the information gathered as a guide, a calm and reassuring voice of wisdom when the voices in my head were getting loud and chaotic.  Addiction skews your perception six-ways-to-Sunday, that's why it is valuable to have voices of reason reminding you of what is actually going on rather than what you think is going on.            2 hours ago, jillar said:               Maybe someone who's read the book will comment to your question. I don't see though how anyone gets away from cigarettes without some sort of withdrawal/recovery symptoms...               There may be folks out there who were able to simply flip a switch and be done with smoking, but they are the exception rather than the rule.  Most of us had put in some time to unpack the mental and physical baggage of decades of addiction and conditioning.      To any of our newbies I would like to strongly suggest that you don't put added pressure on yourself when starting a quit.  I did it in past, failed, quit attempts.  I've seen people here on the Train doing it to themselves.  If you've quit smoking and realize all the ills that come with cigarettes but still want to smoke, it's understandable.  Addiction does not work from a place of reason and logic.  Eventually you will reach a point where you no longer want to smoke, but it takes time to get there.      Quitting smoking is strictly a pass/fail grade.  There are no style points and you're not rewarded for increased degree of difficulty.  You either quit or you don't.       There is only one question that matters in a quit: Did you smoke today?  If the answer to that question is "no"...you're good to go.  If the answer to that question is "yes"...you screwed it up, start over.
    Hi Peeper , Sounds like your over thinking...this can be dangerous ...and messes with your mind ..  Try and keep it  simple ..if it works for you ..then it works ..we are all different ...    No matter what method you use ,books video,s... ect...  You still have to do the work ...and never stick anything in your mouth and smoke it ..no matter what ..    Take smoking Off the table ...it works ...
On 7/18/2019 at 4:13 PM, reciprocity said:              Sounds to me like you're missing true commitment. Commitment to not buy cigarettes, posses cigarettes and smoke cigarettes.                 Books, videos and quit aid products are all well and fine but it always boils down to personal commitment to quit smoking. Without that commitment, you can not be successful!          It does boil down to commitment, I agree. I get where the folks who are struggling to keep a commitment. I felt as though I had two warring personalities, one that wanted to keep the commitment, the other easily overpowering it with the promise of easing the panic that something terrible was going to happen to my kids, or that I'd make a fatal mistake at work and lose my job. All that panic the result of craving nicotine, but my commitment wilted in the face of the anxiety.      I can't count the times I threw away cigarettes and lighters, said, "that's it!" and hours, days, or weeks later I blithely and without a specific trigger trotted off to the store for cigarettes. I don't know what was wrong with me. There has to be motivation to state, "I'm committed," and ongoing motivation to keep that commitment. I tried vitamins, Tony Robbins, a book, "What to say when you talk to yourself," nicotine replacement, self-hypnosis/suggestion, meditation...I can't remember what else. It was all in the service of trying to stay committed. It was as though I was only reaching one aspect of my personality, with the addicted aspect unaffected.     When I was successful for days or weeks, I don't really know where I found the motivation to stay abstinent for those periods of time, but made it only hours other times.      I agree, it does boil down to commitment. It's been staying motivated that has been lacking for me to keep that commitment. I feel committed now because the specter of encroaching blindness looms on my horizon. In the mind of a person who keeps the commitment, is there perhaps a consciously or subconsciously held picture/sounds/feelings that are more powerful than addiction?
    Holding fast to a commitment isn't necessarily fun or sexy, motivating or inspiring.        It is just a minute by minute, day to day affirmation to never take another puff.       A certain maturity and power ensues when instant gratification takes a back seat and rewards accumulate with time.      This thread may be usefulNOPE ~ Never/Ever/Forever   
Hi Peeper,      What you are missing from       On 7/18/2019 at 11:22 AM, peeper said:              I  did contact EasyWay and was told to listen again in 1 sitting but never received any insight as to what I am missing to free me from this slavery. Thanks!!!             Most people who quit smoking do not use a forum, or study ways to quit.     They simply make a decision to "Never Take Another Puff", and then keep the commitment with themselves.          A big danger of studying different ways of quitting is to believe that studying is what will keep your quit.    It does not.    What is missing from your quit, is that you have not yet made your commitment to "Never Take Another Puff".     It does not make any difference how many times you read Alan Carr's  or EasyWay materials or watch Joel Spitzer's videos, or use nicotine patches, nicotine gum, Chantix, accupuncture, hypnosis....    Without this commitment, you will always fail.          That is the answer, to your question "what I am missing to free me from this slavery".                 Avoid "analysis-paralysis". The very tall "quit smoking" mountain you think is front of you, is a illusion. Your F.E.A.R. is actually "False.Expectations.Appearing.Real".       Keep it simple, make your commitment with yourself to never "Never Take Another Puff", and simply do not look back.        That is all you really need to keep your quit clean, easy to maintain, and 100% successful.     Forever.            Cristóbal
Hi @peeper and welcome aboard!!! A lot of good advice has been given here already. Bottom line is, it takes a commitment to oneself not to smoke. Talking to people on QuitTrain can be helpful. However, no matter what anyone says, and irrespective of the methods (books/videos/NRT...etc.) used to quit smoking, one has to make a commitment to oneself not to smoke. It takes courage as well. You may be scared as to not knowing how you will be to handle life as an ex-smoker. You may be scared to throw out all your smoking paraphernalia. You may be scared not knowing how you will carry out your day to day routine without smoking. Although easier said than done, take quitting smoking in your stride and work through it an hour and a day at a time. Keep yourself busy with activities. Drink plenty of juice and water during the first 3 days. Take the NOPE pledge on the forum, it helps. When I do get a crave, I admit to myself I need a smoke, but I also say to myself that I'm not going to submit to it. Personally, I never read any books w.r.t quitting smoking, I just watched Joel's videos and talked to people on QuitTrain. I also take the NOPE pledge everyday. I also stuck as many post-its I could that say "Never Take Another Puff" all over my room, and the post-its still remain to this day. Its like a reminder for the commitment I made to myself not to smoke. You can also watch Joel's videos on his YouTube channel, working through them a day at a time as organized in playlists. Here's the link:  https://www.youtube.com/user/joelspitz     Here's a video that may be of some help to you:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tTb3d5cjSFI        All the best!!!
It was after quitting smoking, I realized  how addiction had turned me into a spoiled brat.I indulged myself completely,  I smoked anytime and anywhere possible.My most shameful example was after a home birth,my brand new daughter, alive and healthy,was being walked around by her father and I said to my midwifes,'man,  after 9 months and the last 12 hours, I NEED A SMOKE'.One of my midwifes asked,'Really ?''Yes yes yes yes yes YES, I want a smoke !"                                                                                                          She handed me a non filtered cigarette from the pack she had hidden in her jacketand that was the end of that abstinence for 29 years !I call it 'abstinence' because I never ever wanted to quitand only quit smokes and drinks 'temporarily' for pregnancy.That was really Big of me, huh ? I didn't give a hoot about second hand smokeand that was worse than just acting the spoiled brat.Second hand smoke does actual HARM to people, animals and plants. Smoking is suicidal, homicidal, herbicidal, biocidalall the cidal-s you can think of and continues to makethe tobacco companies rich beyond measureGah! I am elated  to not be lining those evil pockets anymoreglad also, to not be 'cidal' anything.and one more thing...                                                                               My Spoiled Brat also made quitting harder.'This is too hard'  the brat would moan'I don't want to !'  the brat would whine'Why Are You Denying Yourself ? 'The Brat cajoled and wheedleduntil I simply had no other choice,I killed the Spoiled Brat.Killed Dead.Spoiled Brat-icide.Hah !If you are thinking about quitting, Know You Can.You don't have to be the spoiled brat that addiction turns us into or,  a slave to nicotine anymore.You Can Quit.
When my father was in the hospital dying of lungcancer, me and my mom sneaked downstairs for a smoke outside :(
When i had my first little baby...weighing in at six pounds...The ash tray was waiting on the cupboard next to me...Ignorance..selfishness..stupid...as she was growing up...I wouldn't let the wind blow on her..Just my second hand smoke...
I could list so many times, all as bad as each other. Smoking never seemed to be my life but it certainly was.You need to break though to the other side and then it is so obvious :(
It is a very selfish habit. Things I didn't do because I wanted to smoke...
Something somebody said reminded me of me and my spoiled brat-dom.  I was almost three years into my quit when I wrote this.            On 7/1/2016 at 8:41 AM, Sazerac said:               It was after quitting smoking, I realized  how addiction had turned me into a spoiled brat.         I indulged myself completely,  I smoked anytime and anywhere possible.                  My most shameful example was after a home birth,            my brand new daughter, alive and healthy,           was being walked around by her father and I said to my midwifes,            'man,  after 9 months and the last 12 hours, I NEED A SMOKE'.           One of my midwifes asked,           'Really ?'          'Yes yes yes yes yes YES, I want a smoke !"                                                                                                                                             She handed me a non filtered cigarette from the pack she had hidden in her jacket           and that was the end of that abstinence for 29 years !                  I call it 'abstinence' because I never ever wanted to quit          and only quit smokes and drinks 'temporarily' for pregnancy.            That was really Big of me, huh ?                                        I didn't give a hoot about second hand smoke            and that was worse than just acting the spoiled brat.                   Second hand smoke does actual HARM to people, animals and plants.                                       Smoking is suicidal, homicidal, herbicidal, biocidal            all the cidal-s you can think of and continues to make          the tobacco companies rich beyond measure           Gah!                    I am elated  to not be lining those evil pockets anymore            glad also, to not be 'cidal' anything.          and one more thing...                                                                                                                   My Spoiled Brat also made quitting harder.          'This is too hard'  the brat would moan         'I don't want to !'  the brat would whine           'Why Are You Denying Yourself ? '           The Brat cajoled and wheedled           until I simply had no other choice,         I killed the Spoiled Brat.          Killed Dead.            Spoiled Brat-icide.         Hah !           If you are thinking about quitting, Know You Can.           You don't have to be the spoiled brat that addiction turns us into or,  a slave to nicotine anymore.            You Can Quit.
    I'd quit while pregnant and feeding but the minute that was done... smoke back in mouth... not proud of it. AT ALL. 
    I LOVE this post, thank you for sharing 
    Geez....from Brat to Angel.....pretty cool. (thank you)!
    Coming to terms with how addiction turned us into selfish, spoiled brats    made it easier for me to identify the addicts voice and choose Freedom's voice. The voices are both powerful and one leads us to incredible changes and attitudes,  the other keeps us down and abused. Start listening to your voice of freedom no matter how faint it may be, it will soon be so beautifully loud and inspiring.  Your Spoiled Addicted Brat has nothing for you. Never did, never, never will.
    bump
    Sazerac,        Not sure if you were really a spoiled brat or just in denial about what you were actually doing.        Regardless, I see you on this board constantly helping others so maybe the karma will balance out someday.  
On 7/1/2016 at 8:41 AM, Sazerac said:               It was after quitting smoking, I realized  how addiction had turned me into a spoiled brat.         I indulged myself completely,  I smoked anytime and anywhere possible.                  My most shameful example was after a home birth,            my brand new daughter, alive and healthy,           was being walked around by her father and I said to my midwifes,            'man,  after 9 months and the last 12 hours, I NEED A SMOKE'.           One of my midwifes asked,           'Really ?'          'Yes yes yes yes yes YES, I want a smoke !"                                                                                                                                             She handed me a non filtered cigarette from the pack she had hidden in her jacket           and that was the end of that abstinence for 29 years !                  I call it 'abstinence' because I never ever wanted to quit          and only quit smokes and drinks 'temporarily' for pregnancy.            That was really Big of me, huh ?                                        I didn't give a hoot about second hand smoke            and that was worse than just acting the spoiled brat.                   Second hand smoke does actual HARM to people, animals and plants.                                       Smoking is suicidal, homicidal, herbicidal, biocidal            all the cidal-s you can think of and continues to make          the tobacco companies rich beyond measure           Gah!                    I am elated  to not be lining those evil pockets anymore            glad also, to not be 'cidal' anything.          and one more thing...                                                                                                                   My Spoiled Brat also made quitting harder.          'This is too hard'  the brat would moan         'I don't want to !'  the brat would whine           'Why Are You Denying Yourself ? '           The Brat cajoled and wheedled           until I simply had no other choice,         I killed the Spoiled Brat.          Killed Dead.            Spoiled Brat-icide.         Hah !           If you are thinking about quitting, Know You Can.           You don't have to be the spoiled brat that addiction turns us into or,  a slave to nicotine anymore.            You Can Quit.                   I don't want to make light of how anyone feels during their detox from nicotine but,    please ! look at the big picture...you never have to go through this again  and all the discomfort is temporary.    Freedom is Forever.
    Thanks for sharing this. 
On 10/21/2018 at 9:50 AM, Sirius said:              Not sure if you were really a spoiled brat or just in denial about what you were actually doing.﻿   I feel we were in denial.  Our heads in the sand.  The evil things smoking would do were not going to happen to us.     As the years piled on, the fear would creep to the top occasionally but we could push it right back down because of the addiction.  Then the view changed and smokers became ostracized and shamed.  That is when it really hit home with me.  Instead of hiding my head in the sand, I began hiding myself in my home and not smoking around people.  The isolation and shame lead to depression. Thank goodness I stumbled upon this forum.  Freedom from the addiction is the best!
2 hours ago, Linda Thomas said:             I feel we were in denial.  Our heads in the sand.  The evil things smoking would do were not going to happen to us.                     As the years piled on, the fear would creep to the top occasionally but we could push it right back down because of the addiction.                  Then the view changed and smokers became ostracized and shamed.  That is when it really hit home with me.  Instead of hiding my head in the sand, I began hiding myself in my home and not smoking around people.  The isolation and shame lead to depression. Thank goodness I stumbled upon this forum.  Freedom from the addiction is the best!              Remember your first posts....you amaze me Linda....how much you have grown from I'm too old and not strong enough...I love how being free has let you take back your life and yourself.
19 minutes ago, notsmokinjo said:                                   Remember your first posts....you amaze me Linda....how much you have grown from I'm too old and not strong enough...I love how being free has let you take back your life and yourself.             Yup! These are the stories I love to see and we've been graced with a few. Not just people quitting this horrible addiction but actually transforming their lives at the same time. Frickin fantastic!
2 hours ago, reciprocity said:              Yup! These are the stories I love to see and we've been graced with a few. Not just people quitting this horrible addiction but actually transforming their lives at the same time. Frickin fantastic!                  2 hours ago, notsmokinjo said:              Remember your first posts....you amaze me Linda....how much you have grown from I'm too old and not strong enough...I love how being free has let you take back your life and yourself.             What is Frickin fantastic is the wonderful people on this forum that made me realize that I was stronger than I ever realized.  I have been very blessed to have you all travel this road with me.  I feel like I have grown a lifetime in this year (minus a couple of weeks).   You all have helped me see the best in me and helped me realize that I am worthy of a life free of addiction.     Thank you all so much!!!!!!Edited July 17 by Linda Thomas
On 7/1/2016 at 6:45 AM, Evelyn said:                When my father was in the hospital dying of lungcancer, me and my mom sneaked downstairs for a smoke outside    My father was on hospice with smoking-caused emphysema for about four months. My weekly visits with him never lasted more than an hour at a time. I was a closet smoker. I'd make excuses to leave. I couldn't stand another minute without smoking.
    Came across this TEDx Talk this morning. It resonates with me and thought maybe someone else who is struggling might find it helpful. It has given me hope.  
Quitting smoking can bring quantum changes in a life.  The self-confidence and the trust in yourself propels you to bigger changes.     What's going on with your quit date, @Kate18 ? It reads today (July 19, 2019), is that correct ?    I'm hoping it is a typo but, are you back after a relapse ?
22 minutes ago, Sazerac said:               Quitting smoking can bring quantum changes in a life.  The self-confidence and the trust in yourself propels you to bigger changes.                                     What's going on with your quit date, @Kate18 ? It reads today (July 19, 2019), is that correct ?                    I'm hoping it is a typo but, are you back after a relapse ?         It is not a typo, unfortunately. I lapsed and had given up. I had no confidence in myself to keep a pledge to not smoke and was never going to come back to QT. I've been impulse driven. The insidious thought that one more pack won't really matter had me going from pack to pack. I'd resigned to being a smoker.      Seeing the video, and recognizing the truth of what Davos says--a lot of it from Anthony Robbins, I think--reminds me of how change can happen and gives me a glimmer of hope again.    I like Davos's suggestion of saying out loud--and I think "out loud" is a key factor-- that "what I really want is ......."  She suggested air, what I really want is air. In essence, I think it's, "what I want is a hit of dopamine, a sense of elation or relaxation without it being prompted by a hit of nicotine."       I'm making this up as I go through my day today. I'm buying a few cookies when I get to work.  I'm practicing what she said.  For today, it's "what I really want is the small sugar rush when I eat a cookie on my break." I'll figure out tonight what I can do tomorrow.     I just ordered a sustainable farming book on Amazon, "How to Grow More Vegetables (and Fruits, Nuts, Berries, Grains, and Other Crops) Than You Ever Thought Possible on Less Land with Less Water Than You Can Imagine." Jeavons, John. The reality of my ever having a mini-farm again (I had one years ago) is dim--I'm 69 and have to work until I drop. But the dream makes me happy. I'm hopeful that studying the book will give me hours of pleasure--dopamine, that is.        Other than the above, I don't know how to make this time quitting different. At least I'm out of the mindset that I was always going to be a smoker. I had quit trying. I realized two days ago that my eyesight in one of my eyes went from 20/40 to about 20/60 within the space of four months. Scared me. This morning I went online to review quit-smoking sites and motivational, self-improvement quotes. I found this video and what Davos says makes sense. After so many failures, I'm afraid of failing again. But if I don't try again, I am doomed to a nightmarish life.
    Kate !  Do not give up !  You can quit and I am so glad you came back.  Never stop quitting.    Stop Smoking !      When I had a crave or a trigger I would holler, Free Your Head !    and take beautiful clean breaths, Oxygen !  Commit to NOPE, quit fooling around.    You have plenty of time left to enjoy and thrive in your freedom.   Stay close, we are looking out for you.
    Sorry you smoked Kate ,but glad to see you have taken your seat back in the train ...   Never give up ,giving up....do whatever it takes ....   Remember your not giving up anything but poison that will kill you ...your freeing yourself...  Wake up each day ..shouting Yipee I'm free...a Fabulous Non Smoker....I'm no more a slave to that Nico Monster.
    So glad your back Kate.  Yes, never give up quitting.  I was like you and never thought I could quit.  I became a closet smoker and gave up on life.  Finding this forum gave me the power to quit.  Stay close and we will help you through.
    Hi Kate, glad you're back to quitting. And glad you came back to qt. I think one huge thing you haven't tried yet is staying glued to this site. I'm not joking when I tell you that it worked great for me. I was on any and every time I could be and found that keeping my mind busy with reading and responding to all the various threads really did help silent the constant thoughts of smoking. And if I did feel like I was getting ready to cave to a crave I posted about it and people came running to get me through it.   I REALLY do think you should try it this time. Who knows, it just may be the trick  
Yesterday I allowed myself foods (including some rather high in sodium--forbidden because they worsen glaucoma) -- in order to stimulate the pleasure center of the brain and counteract the void left by ceasing to feed my brain with nicotine. I especially like hot dogs, which, unfortunately, are a class-1 carcinogen. Won't repeat that one, but I enjoyed them immensely with some rice and vegetables.  It worked to stop the cravings. I made it with little difficulty to evening.      It isn't a permanent solution, but for a few days I'll indulge. I just had a cookie left over from yesterday with my coffee.        I joined the 24 Hour Fitness gym across the street from my neighborhood. My first induction/training session is Monday. I want to see how much nicotine-craving can be countered by exercise, and how long the effect lasts.        Anyone have success with easing cravings with exercise? The amount of it? How often do you have to exercise to stave off craving?       I'm thinking it could be useful to learn to properly punch a punching bag at the gym. When I visualize that I'm punching the bag as a surrogate for a cigarette or the tobacco industry, or the dark side of myself that wants to smoke--quite a satisfying image.
    Kate, exercise is a great distraction.  You also deserve to reward yourself.   Each day you power through your craves, it will get easier.  
I was thinking about Doreen caring for her Tonyand found this video on what emphysema feels likehere are two short videosand our friend, Joel Spitzer KEEP YOUR QUITS Y'ALL 
That is terrifying! I sent the shorter video to my husband and roommates. They smoke, but have been thinking about quitting since I have. I told them it's some motivation for them. One of my roommates is going to quit on Monday, actually. 
I found this over at http://www.emphysema.net/smokers.html I believe it covers the trajectory in excruciating detail.
On 6/10/2016 at 7:39 AM, Sazerac said:              I was thinking about Doreen caring for her Tony                 and found this video on what emphysema feels like                   here are two short videos                                       and our friend, Joel Spitzer                                                            KEEP YOUR QUITS Y'ALL               The stark reality of the effects of cigarette smoking.  This is no joke.
    This is as real as it gets...you think it won't happen to you ????  Tony did too !!!
    bump
Thank you Sally ,for bumping this forward ....Emphesema kills/ C.o.p.d kills..  If you think Quitting is uncomfortable,try spending 10 years on a oxygen machine 16 hours of every day ..   Just take a minute ,sit quiet,and think about how your life would change....
1 hour ago, Doreensfree said:               Thank you Sally ,for bumping this forward ....Emphesema kills/ C.o.p.d kills..                  If you think Quitting is uncomfortable,try spending 10 years on a oxygen machine 16 hours of every day ..                   Just take a minute ,sit quiet,and think about how your life would change....                Thank you, my brave and beautiful friend.
    The first days can seem like the longest days of your life. I’m sitting here this morning counting all the reason I’m quitting. So many wonderful reason but still the beast is calling. I’ll have a bite to eat and I’m  so accustomed to having that after meal cigarette and then I realize I don’t really need it. Come on here and read some post or watch a video. Thank goodness for this forum. And all the wonderful members who take the time to help all us newbies. 
Oh yes Diane, the constant thoughts of cigarettes drove me crazy too. That lasted longer than any of the other quit symptoms I was going through. And yes, finding others who knew what I was going through helped me a lot too. I found that supporting my fellow quitters gave me that break from thinking about smoking that I so badly needed and stayed glued to the forum daily.  The forum is also where I first discovered using my air cigarette to get past a bad crave. It really worked to trick my mind into thinking it was getting the real thing so if things get too bad, try it.  Oh and congratulations on day 2
    Write down all your reasons for quitting.   You might want to post a Pre Response to your own  SOS    HERE. and here is a video index of our friend, Joel Spitzer,  Daily Quitting Lesson Guide These vids helped me immeasurably.      Soon your body will be free of nicotine !   I am so glad you made the step to quit.  You will be fine and free !
    I napped a lot just to escape a the cravings for a bit while still moving the clock.  Seriously.  But I was a very grumpy quitter.  
I’m moody too Jordan7. I can’t help it. Than I’m constantly saying I’m sorry. Everything seems to get on my last nerve. My daughter called me last night and the kids where in the car with her. I had to go they weren’t doing anything just being kids but I couldn’t take the noise my head hurt so bad.
3 minutes ago, Diane R said:                I’m moody too Jordan7. I can’t help it. Than I’m constantly saying I’m sorry. Everything seems to get on my last nerve. My daughter called me last night and the kids where in the car with her. I had to go they weren’t doing anything just being kids but I couldn’t take the noise my head hurt so bad.                 Ha, the only company I truly enjoyed very early on was my Labrador's.  He got a lot of walks the first weekend.
    And I swear time was almost standing still for me during those earl days. A day seemed like a week. It was frightening. I thought it might stay that way - lol. I think most of us end up with a short fuse during the early days. I learned to keep my yap shut, especially if it involved my wife, although she knew what was going on so she picked here times carefully to approach me with any issues.
Congratulations on making it to Day 2 @Diane R!!! Keep marching on forward!!!
1 hour ago, Jordan7 said:               I napped a lot just to escape a the cravings for a bit while still moving the clock.  Seriously.  But I was a very grumpy quitter.          Me too!  I did a lot of deep breathing and thinking of that glorious fresh air going in and out.    Each day gets better.
You are right Diane.  Those first days seem to be a total obsession with fighting off the cravings.  And the irritability is off the charts.  I still recall standing in the "15 items or less" line at the supermarket and my head nearly exploded as I counted the 21 items that the sweet, elderly lady in front of me unloaded on the conveyor belt.  When she pulled out her checkbook to pay I just lost it.  "Are you %#&ing kidding me!?!?!?!"  Calmness and sanity will come back.  And the freedom from "needing" to light up every half hour will actually make your life much more peaceful.    Keep up the good work.  You're on track.
    Yes I also thought the first couple of weeks seemed like months.  When I found this group it helped me get thru those "long days".  But as each day passed I saw new benefits and that really helped me get thru the worst.  Keep going girl you are strong and you are doing this!!!
I keep telling myself  patience is a virtue but it’s not helping very much lol. And I also have a lab Jordan7 my baby boy Samson. He been staying close by me. He knows something is different. Such smart dogs. I would walk him more if I had the Energy. I miss that the most. I can’t wait to have my energy back so I can join the gym!
Here's some reading for you Diane       https://www.quittrain.com/topic/2747-your-first-days-nicotine-free/     Your body is trying to rid itself or a lot of toxins; it's going to take some time but the human body has an amazing ability to heal.
    Hang in there Diane. You are getting through the worst of it. Fight that Nicodemon with all you have. Things will get better the more time you invest in your quit!
    Get up off your rusty dusty, "make a move-change a thought".    You will feel so much better, it will get your endorphins flowing,  just do it.
Good thing is thecravings don’t last too long. And I have my  twizzlers Sazerac how did you know is was  Dusty   Edited July 17 by Diane R
9 minutes ago, Sazerac said:                Get up off your rusty dusty, "make a move-change a thought".                    You will feel so much better, it will get your endorphins flowing,  just do it.         Good advice Diane! I remember sitting in my house locked up like a prisoner for almost the whole first week of my quit and wish now that I had just forced myself to get off my butt and get out in the fresh air. Just a short walk or anything. Not only revitalizes you physically but will distract you from smokey thoughts. Take you doggie for a short walk. You'll both be better off for it
32 minutes ago, Diane R said:               Good thing is the carving don’t last too long. And I have my  twizzlers                 Sazerac how did you know is was  Dusty                  I am hoping 'carving' is a typo and all your knives are in a safe place, lol.
    How are you feeling, Diane ?    Hope I didn't give you a Disco ear worm yesterday.  Soon nicotine will be gone from your body and the healing will begin.   Our bodies are amazingly forgiving.
    Thanks you checking on me Sazerac.  I’m just waking up. So far so good. Took the dog out and didn’t think about having one at all. Of course I wake up with a headache. No biggie  Ibuprofen here I come and my coffee. Yesterday afternoon I decided to go hang by the pool. That helped a lot. So hot here in July. And I could do a little  exercise in the pool. Not ready for the gym just yet. I don’t seem to be as  achy this morning. So I’m going to try and get a little housework done today. And if I get to tired to finish oh well, i’ll get there. It’s going to take a little longer this go around. I never had and of the withdrawals with the laser treatment. I look at it this way if I think about ever putting a cigarette in my mouth I’m going to remember how awful I have felt when I quit. That should do it. At least I hope. This is no fun at all. And I’m not a spring chicken lol  
    You're doing great Diane.  It's WAY more rewarding to accomplish something that was a challenge than to achieve something that was effortless.
Thanks BKP! I’m Just  waiting for this  burst of energy everyone says they get. where’s mine  Edited July 18 by Diane R
12 minutes ago, Diane R said:               Thanks BKP! I’m Just  waiting for this  burst of energy everyone says they get. where’s mine                Patience Grasshopper.
24 minutes ago, Diane R said:               Thanks BKP! I’m Just  waiting for this  burst of energy everyone says they get. where’s mine                I never got a burst of energy Diane so don't worry if it never happens. I felt just as you do, tired all day than couldn't sleep all night....
I'm not sure I got that 'burst of energy' either.   I was able to sleep through the first few days and self-medicated with Whisky.  When I surfaced,  I dove into the fury of cleaning my house.        Here is a thread Your First Days, Nicotine Free     Hey, drink lots of water and watch your blood sugar !    Edited July 18 by Sazerac
1 hour ago, Diane R said:                I look at it this way if I think about ever putting a cigarette in my mouth I’m going to remember how awful I have felt when I quit. That should do it. At least I hope. This is no fun at all. And I’m not a spring chicken lol           Pretty much how I still look at it Diane
    Well one can dream lol. I’m not has exhausted today. At least there is that. Good thing I’m good at looking on the bright side. 
3 hours ago, Diane R said:              Thanks BKP! I’m Just  waiting for this  burst of energy everyone says they get. where’s mine            Diane, I think that only comes before birth .  I did not have a burst of energy but did feel more powerful each day.
On 7/17/2019 at 10:11 AM, Diane R said:             The first days can seem like the longest days of your life.             Our perception of time ebbs and flows throughout our lives.  When we quit, we start doing two things: watching the clock and feeling somewhat bored as we're trying to figure out what to do with our time now.  That's a combination that seemingly brings time to a screeching halt.      You settle into your new life as a non-smoker, put some time between you and cigarettes, leave some milestones in the rear view...and before you know it the clock is moving at normal speed again.         On 7/17/2019 at 12:54 PM, Diane R said:             I keep telling myself  patience is a virtue but it’s not helping very much lol. And I also have a lab Jordan7 my baby boy Samson. He been staying close by me. He knows something is different. Such smart dogs. I would walk him more if I had the Energy. I miss that the most. I can’t wait to have my energy back so I can join the gym!                I have a black lab, his name is Cash.  If Samson is anything like Cash, you could always pass the time throwing a tennis ball for him to fetch.  He never gets tired of that game.      Eat.  Play.  Sleep.  Dogs are living the good life.
    Samson loves to play fetch. And he loves swimming. Which I had planned on doing again with him today but it’s raining here. South Florida summers never know what you will get. I put my quit post up on Facebook last night. I got a lot of you can do it. I didn’t really tell to many people I was quoting right away. I’m lucky that most of the family doesn’t smoke.  Hope everyone is have a good day! 
Nice Ticker Diane,                                      Hope the weather breaks. Have a great afternoon !  Edited July 18 by Eight-Toe Joe
    Your as well Joe! It’s not raining at this minute but if looks like it’s not done yet lol. There’s alway tomorrow. Think I’ll take a little nap 
Here is something sickening I found on the Wall Street Journal twitter feed today,       The Wall Street Journal Retweeted  WSJ Custom Content‏ Paid Program for PMI:   More than $6 billion has been spent researching and developing smoke-free alternatives to cigarettes.       A short vid,     It's Time To Unsmoke,      sponsored by our friends at Phillip Morris.Edited July 18 by Sazerac
    And it continues. Anyway to promote their product.  So Sad.  (as a side note I got and ad from Juul stating that they are going to stop producing and shipping flavored nicotine products to their retailers, why not any of their products -- shows money is more important) !!!!
    Yuh the y will never stop. 
    Seems legit.        Wait ......... isn't that what I said about the advertising for cigarettes when I first started smoking?
We may have quit smoking but our environment is still bombarded with the toxic chemicals contained in the filters of the discarded cigarette butts. World wide, it's in the Trillions annually. I can't even wrap my head around trillions. I know I have never seen that descriptor mentioned on my bank statement!https://globalnews.ca/news/4418956/cigarette-butts-ocean-pollution-ban/
    I have to admit that I always wondered about this as I smoked -- and yes I was part of the problem.  I believe that cigarettes have caused more harm than what we have ever thought.  This is hard to wrap my head around but something I have to look deep inside myself as to the consequences.  This is something to follow up on and move forward with!!!!
I'm more motivated than ever to join a local clean-up volunteer group. 1 person may not make a huge difference but I will make at least some difference. That's important because I too was a major contributor to this problem for more years than I care to admit!
    And maybe more of us should, I too will commit myself to volunteer for local clean ups. We have a clean up the beach a couple times of year and this is for sure one I will work on ( have you ever seen how many butts are on the beach)!!!!
Well, I pick up cigarette butts all along my street nearly every day, in a mostly calm fury.    When I smoked I thought I was being virtuous by 'field stripping' my smoke, which is stubbing out the fire, twisting the leftover tobacco out and pocketing the filter to be thrown in the trash.       You know where the trash goes ?  Landfill, put out to sea on a barge, or sent to another country.   Filters are not biodegradable.  My nearly 300,000 cigarette butts are still on the planet.  Sickened at the reality.  Virtuous pffftttt.
The following was some of the more weird things I didwhile going through the stress of decompress.  Sharpen knifes.  Oh Vay!  scrape, scrape, scrape....Take your time with it.  Focus on getting the sharpest edge.All my knifes are very sharp. Emptied out my ashtray into a glass jar (with lid).  Added a bit of water to the mix.  When I feel the need I take a good long look at this stuff.  If I still feel the need I unscrew thelid and take a long deep whiff.  Really brings back the wholesmoking experience - to include the gagging, retching, and full body coughing. If the time and place allows for it; a good stiff drink.  One shot only!  Purely for medicinal purposes.  Bonus points for Barcardi 151. A personal favorite.  Chopping Wood.  Nothing like swinging an axe to work out the aggression and utter unfairness that constant denial piles onto my little psyche.  Plus, I'm doing something constructive! Hold your breath until the desire to breath meets and exceeds the desire to smoke.  While holding your breath contemplatehow each cigarette you consume brings you closer to holding yourbreath involuntarily. Breathing is far more satisfying then smoking. Enjoy a fresh Jalapeño. Pop the whole thing in your mouth and chew slowly.  mmmmmm...  Bonus points for not having water near at hand.
Cool post, Sirius * I sharpened all my knives, too !  In fact, I got into the excellent habit of keeping them sharp.  I have a lot of knives. * Deep cleaned my house like a maniac, it was so beautiful.  I wish that maniac chick would come back once in a while. * I was eating a lot of Satsumas and worms aren't crazy about citrus near the compost so,     I scraped down the white from the skins, put the skins in bottles with isopropyl alcohol and made excellent mosquito repellent. *  Yes !  Breathing ! Learning how to take a break after a chore and have beautiful clean deep breaths be my 'reward'.
Good ideas. I preach licking an ashtray or asshole. Same result of shit breath
I love this post...at the beginning some craziness is needed..Besides music blasting down my ears..probably damaged them.lol...I drew a face on a pillow with a marker pen....And punching hell out not it.....sending it flying through the air..or lying it on the bed and punching away for all my life..Oh it felt good...
Cool post, Sirius * I sharpened all my knives, too !  In fact, I got into the excellent habit of keeping them sharp.  I have a lot of knives. * Deep cleaned my house like a maniac, it was so beautiful.  I wish that maniac chick would come back once in a while. * I was eating a lot of Satsumas and worms aren't crazy about citrus near the compost so,     I scraped down the white from the skins, put the skins in bottles with isopropyl alcohol and made excellent mosquito repellent. *  Yes !  Breathing ! Learning how to take a break after a chore and have beautiful clean deep breaths be my 'reward'. *Quietly retreats from the thread....
*Quietly retreats from the thread.... Well I did say "Crazy." I'll make another thread detailing the elegant, suave, and glamorously sophisticated yet coolly cerebral things I did to quit as soon as I think of anything that fell into that category.  B)
Well I did say "Crazy." I'll make another thread detailing the elegant, suave, and glamorously sophisticated yet coolly cerebral things I did to quit as soon as I think of anything that fell into that category.  B) Sirius, what you said was, weird.  You didn't say,  crazy.   What about all those bon-bons I elegantly sucked while in my cerebral vapors on the fainting couch ? Mais oui... another thread to accomodate our glamorously sophisticated methods of quitting smoking, s'il vous plaît My primal screaming at the tracks while a train roared down the rails may fail to qualify. p.s.  I'll speak to Stuart later about running away with knives.  sharp knives.
Laughing is permitted :PPutting on a patch various 3 - 7 times a day. Last months very OCD - I started using and again smoking off and on+/- in 2005Eating a bottle of bubble gum a daySucking on mints a year...Using NRT spray 4x an hour way stronger then NRT gum
Stay signed in and posting all night sometimes...couldn't switch off...Swopped one addiction for another..
Sirius, what you said was, weird.  You didn't say,  crazy.   What about all those bon-bons I elegantly sucked while in my cerebral vapors on the fainting couch ? Mais oui... another thread to accomodate our glamorously sophisticated methods of quitting smoking, s'il vous plaît My primal screaming at the tracks while a train roared down the rails may fail to qualify. p.s.  I'll speak to Stuart later about running away with knives.  sharp knives. Whoops.  Your right.  Weird is not necessarily crazy (but it helps).
bump
Speaking more in generalities I would recommend:Don't replace your addiction with another addiction.   Don't use smoking cessation as an excuse (too much).Use crutches if you have to but wean yourself off them at some point.The first week or two is hell week.  Its tough but the time does pass.Remember why you quit and keep the list at hand.Make the NOPE pledge every morning to yourself, in the mirror.Sugar free gum gives the pucker something to do.Chewing Ice.  Hmmm...so much for generalities...Off to the land of the wierd - I have fresh spearmint growing on my property.  I'll pick some and grind between hands till hands are wet.  Drop spearmint and cup hands over nose and inhale sharply through the nostrils.  It may be that strong (and hopefully pleasant)) scents serve to interfere with a craving.  It gives me something of a reset.   It's like my brain is saying, "gotta have a smoke, gotta have a smo-  **SPEARMINT!!!**"
    Bump    What are some of the odd things you did/do while you quit smoking ?
    My weirdest by far was my JAC (jillars air cigarette). I'm positive I looked like an idiot puffing on an invisible cigarette lol. 
    I formulated a plan for Australia to take over the world and bring about world peace.... There is a dossier...there are spreadsheets and graphs....there is a timeline....it is completely feasible..... I have pricing projections, contingencies for those countries a bit slower to come in line um I mean join the party.... But shhhh I'm saying to much....this plan is perfect, Australia  will rule the world, everyone will be happy, but let it be know you should take the time to translate my posts cos before ya know it you will need to know Strine it might just come in handy. 
    Can you bring Aussie weather to Canada In Feb,? I'd vote for you if the answer is YES!!
    I can learn to say G/Day instead Hi Lar.!!!!
    If you can learn to say; "Holy F*** It's cold!!!" You can move to Canada!
35 minutes ago, reciprocity said:               Can you bring Aussie weather to Canada In Feb,? I'd vote for you if the answer is YES!!             Vote?...oh there will be no vote... All though Canada does pretty well out of the plan.... They are some what contingent to its success....let's face it the kiwis come out of the best after the ... Um ..operational shift in the world than any country other than us...but the Canadians do or right...         I've said to much.... It is kinda a bit scarey that part of me doesn't want to share too much because this plan is doable and we'll you just never know.Edited February 7 by notsmokinjo
When I was 11 and started to smoke ...I took some smokes out of my Mum and Dad's packets ...they never knew ....
On 2/7/2019 at 1:36 PM, Doreensfree said:               When I was 11 and started to smoke ...I took some smokes out of my Mum and Dad's packets ...they never knew ....                                    My dad smoked non filter Pall Malls so my sister and me smoked his butts from the ashtrays
As the first few days were the worst, during my free time on those days I cleaned everything I could in the house. My bedroom furniture went from yellow to white. Curtains, all my clothes, and bedding got laundered. Pictures came off the walls to get a cleaning, walls got cleaned, everything I could clean.     It kept my mind off wanting to smoke plus I figured if I wanted smoking out of my life, I needed to rid as much evidence and stench as possible.    Going from being a smoker to a non-smoker is kind of a big transition. While it is not possible to get rid of smoke residue 100% but I was going to do everything I could to live as a non-smoker. My car got a good cleaning and the ash tray bleached.        Of course I had already gotten rid of the rest of my cigarettes, my cigarette rolling machine, paper tubes, ash trays, etc.     It made it easier to stay quit with everything clean.
Sarge logged over 1800 miles on The DreadMill (basement treadmill) that first year.     Every time he wanted to smoke, he hopped on and ran a mile the fastest he could.    Got up to running full marathons within a year.     A typical year is under 1000 miles these days, with the past 13 months being exactly zero. Diddley-Squat.   No. Miles . Logged.     Achilles injury.    EZPZ
    My wife and I quit almost at the same time. With this song (and a few others) at maximum volume for hours and on repeat,                we cleaned the house all the time.      And then when we finished, we cleaned again the clean house.        If I never hear this song again, it will never bother me !!!            Cristóbal
    I put all my favourite songs on my I pod.!!!!!  Loud in my ears ...I quit but now I'm deaf !!!!......only kiddin.....   I danced around the house for months ..singing away ....it worked for me ...took away any crave.....
I walked down the street to the store and bought a bunch of white chocolate.    The store was 7 miles away. It took all day.
    How long would this pile last the average smoker ...just over a year ...maybe not that long for some ....   There is no such thing as ..Just One !!!!......      
Wow!  I think I have smoked about 28 of those piles.
12 minutes ago, Damona said:                Wow!  I think I have smoked about 28 of those piles.                Yea, a bunch of us have. Welcome back Mona, glad you're back to quitting
Hey, I can add my 10,000 to the pile.  Wow, all of that would have been inside of me ....
    Hello everyone, when did you feel like the worse of the  nicotine addiction was behind you. I’m  struggling  With that today. I want to go out on the patio and have a cigarette but I know it’s not going to taste good. And will mostly likely make me beat myself up for breaking weak and lighting one. And I will only have a few puffs and put it out. Geez why can’t I just put them down? I can do anything esle I decide I want to do
You can do this, too.  You have to decide that there are absolutely no circumstance in which it is okay to take even one puff.  You reactivate the addiction each time you do.  You have to truly believe there is not one positive effect from smoking, other than relieving the withdrawal symptoms that begin again within 30 minutes.Edited July 14 by Nancy
Hi Diane, to be honest, my whole first year sucked. BUT, I was my own worse enemy. Like Nancy said, once you realize smoking offers nothing positive, you'll have a much easier time.   I see that you're quit date is July 11? So you already have three days under your belt. That's half way through what we call hell week. The name speaks for itself....  It's not going to be easy but it is doable, IF you truly are ready to quit......Edited July 14 by jillar
    If you have cigarettes around you, it makes it way too tempting to go smoke one and yes, all of the negative things you mentioned will happen should you light up again. Get rid of any smokes you have access to and old ash trays etc. As Nancy said, every time you light another one up .... you renew your addiction; every time! The only way to break that cycle is to quit and stay quit. Sure there's some uncomfortable days in the beginning but the longer you stay quit, the easier it gets.       In terms of your question about the worst being over? It's different for all. The first week pretty much just sucks big time. Then, each week gets gradually better. You start seeing good days but still have down days too so, it's not like flipping a switch. It's a process The .improvement is very gradual.      The key is your mind set. Stay positive! You are doing the best possible thing for yourself. You need to celebrate that. Embrace the suck of the early days because they will soon be gone and that discomfort represents the fact that you are healing - body & mind!       
    You are in the first week and as said above it is tough and it sucks but you can get thru it-- just stay focused, use deep breathing techniques and drink cold water when a crave comes on and use the  air cigarette.  It takes some time to go thru the process -- no magic bullet here just determination.  It does get better week by week and as you celebrate those milestones and the monthly ones then you see your own control and determination wins out !!!!
Please correct me if I am wrong, @Diane R,  but, I was under the impression that you haven't quit yet.  You were starting Chantix and preparing for your quit.  Is this right ?     It is the commitment to yourself to never take another puff that matters.       Quitting smoking doesn't kill you,  craves do not kill you,     triggers do not kill you.   SMOKING KILLS YOU.      We have all lived through some gnarly times and some easy times, too.       Once you make the commitment, smoking isn't a choice anymore.       You can power through, 'embrace the suck' as our friend, Sarge, says.   Change the Story, Free your Head to emerge stronger and more confident with a solid and profound trust in yourself.     To answer your question, when did you feel the worse was behind you?    I feel the worse is in front of me should I ever choose to smoke even one puff ever again.   Edited July 14 by Sazerac
Diane, things will not improve until you stop smoking altogether.  There will be a rough few weeks but once you brace the suck and quit, you just keep looking forward.  Looking forward to a life without a smoking related illness or possibly a longer much healthier life.      I smoked for 42 years and was so depressed and discouraged that I could not quit.  I was so embarrassed and ashamed that I continued to smoke knowing that it would most likely lead to a terrible end.  I was lucky to find the forum. To answer your question, yes it was tough for about a month.  Once the nicotine is out of your body, you just keep redirecting those thoughts to your new and improved life.
    No I’m not totally smoke free. But I’m working really hard at it. I’m not smoking when I drive which is huge. And I’m not smoking a whole cigarette at all. Mostly just lighting it and having a few puffs and putting it out. Chantix is making that possible. And I’m not buying anymore cigarettes so tomorrow should be it for me. I think it’s more but going though the motions of smoking that I’m having the  most trouble with. And thanks again for all the support and tips.  
You can do it Diane...  Think of it as a little monster ...one puff of nicotine keeps him alive and kicking ....starving him of nicotine will kill him off...after 3 days he's gone ... Unless you light up again ...then he springs back to life .....this is why we carnt have  !! just One Puff. !!!.....
Thanks Doreen! That’s so true. Little devil always temping me. I have to show him the door. He doesn’t belong here. Nope. So far 0 today. I just have to take it hour by hour.
6 hours ago, Diane R said:              No I’m not totally smoke free. But I’m working really hard at it. I’m not smoking when I drive which is huge. And I’m not smoking a whole cigarette at all. Mostly just lighting it and having a few puffs and putting it out. Chantix is making that possible. And I’m not buying anymore cigarettes so tomorrow should be it for me. I think it’s more but going though the motions of smoking that I’m having the  most trouble with. And thanks again for all the support and tips.                 Thank you for the clarification, Diane, and I look forward to the day when you commit to Not One Puff Ever. I believe I can help you more when you take that step.  In the meantime, this may be informative
You poisoned your body for 40 years. You can't just expect to be over it in a month or two.     I knew I was past the addiction fairly quickly. I never really craved a smoke after I quit and I knew I'd never smoke again, so that helped.  I did, however, deal with pretty bad mood swings and a short temper for many months. Jesus bless my sweet girlfriend for putting up with me through it all.       It was around the 9 month mark that I finally felt normal.      You have to remember that this is a process. You have to be determined to put in the work and stay strong and focused.      Bottom line- If you are 100% committed, you can't fail.
6 hours ago, JimHannoonen said: You poisoned your body for 40 years. You can't just expect to be over it in a month or two.             Bingo!      Commit to the process.  Trust the process.
Let’s see, (checks calendar) it’s been over 3 yrs since I quit.  So I would say, that give or take a few days, not counting holidays,  was there a leap year?  No leap year, good.   I started feeling that the worst was behind me early last week.        I’m joking of course.   The worst was behind me the day I quit.   The aftershocks I would say lasted about a month for me.  Your mileage may vary of course.  But that day will come when you don’t even think about it.   You’ll be going to dinner or a movie or be getting on a plane and not even think about when and where can I smoke?   You’ll stop scoping out new places for the smoking area the minute you arrive.       You will feel better, smell better, and save money, and have a lot less stress in your life
Thanks everyone. I’m doing ok today. I didn’t light one up on a 4 1/2 hours drive from the west coast. And I was driving. And ex smokers you  that’s a long time (when you smoke in your car)and great  accomplishment. At least for me. I’ll take it. Of course I want to smoke but I didn’t do it.
    I didn't think it would be possible for me to never smoke again the day I quit. Now, I don't think it would be possible for me to ever smoke again. Funny how your perspective changes once you make that commitment to change your life.
    I didn't even want to quit and now I'm kicking myself I didn't do it sooner. Never thought I'd be able to. Now..I don't see myself ever smoking again.      As to when it got better...don't really know it was so gradual that one day I went, hey haven't thought about smoking for??? Since??..dunno when..woohoo.       Don't worry about when, worry about NOW.... especially in the early days focus on today...tomorrow isn't here yet and yesterday can't be rewritten.  
Thanks everyone and good morning. So far 0 today. One day at a time. I can I will I must!
Yes -- look at this as one day at time, they add up quickly.  You will get to the point where you think less and less about smoking but it takes some effort to get there.  Again focus on that one day  and you  can do this!!!Edited July 16 by Martian5
Please, Take Your LIVES Seriously~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~In 'real' life and here on the QTrain, I see people being carelessabout their lives and their quit,like they have all the time in the world !'I'll quit next week, maybe tomorrow, I'll quit again sometime'.Are they not understanding how dangerous smoking is ?It's a friggin' Slow Suicide !The ramifications are Horrible.This is no joke.Ask our beautiful friend, Doreen ! I, too, used to be casual about quitting, casual about smoking.so, it is no surprise to see others in Denial.I wasn't listening to any kind of Sense, or Logic, or TRUTH, either.Then, suddenly, I 'got it'and thanks to the information here,I educated myself about Nicotine Addiction. After that, there was simply no other choiceexcept to Quit and be Quick about it !I would no longer live as a Slave, or die as one either ! I wish I could give that Eureka moment to everybody struggling with addictionbut, I don't know what happened or why.At a certain point, I listened and Understoodand I give this to you,Understand your addiction, and Be Free of it.Your Lives are Precious.
Nice post :)
Not only will quitting lead to becoming a healthier non-smoker, the process of quitting will serve you well in every area of life.  Any stress you feel during the process will lead to adaptation.  Adaptation leads to strength.  Strength facilitates living.  The process is simple and the rewards of quitting when weighed against the challenges make the decision an obvious one.   Break the chains and start reaping the rewards.
I wish we could bottle and hand out that "eureka" moment. As smokers, we lived in perpetual fear that we will always crave or be triggered when the reality is you co create that yourself.Stop doing it and you're freer then you were. Educate about nicotine addiction and you move another step towards eureka. Then just give it some time and distance and trust that the feelings will subside. All of which is less effort then smoking in reality, more cost effective and better for your health. After that the mental ability benefits start piling in and you feel so much clearer, about everything! x
On 6/4/2016 at 4:09 PM, Sazerac said:               Please, Take Your LIVES Seriously           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         In 'real' life and here on the QTrain, I see people being careless          about their lives and their quit,           like they have all the time in the world !                  'I'll quit next week, maybe tomorrow, I'll quit again sometime'.                    Are they not understanding how dangerous smoking is ?           It's a friggin' Slow Suicide !          The ramifications are Horrible.         This is no joke.            Ask our beautiful friend, Doreen !                                      I, too, used to be casual about quitting, casual about smoking.         so, it is no surprise to see others in Denial.          I wasn't listening to any kind of Sense, or Logic, or TRUTH, either.                    Then, suddenly, I 'got it'          and thanks to the information here,         I educated myself about Nicotine Addiction.                                     After that, there was simply no other choice            except to Quit and be Quick about it !          I would no longer live as a Slave, or die as one either !                                       I wish I could give that Eureka moment to everybody struggling with addiction           but, I don't know what happened or why.         At a certain point, I listened and Understood           and I give this to you,         Understand your addiction, and Be Free of it.           Your Lives are Precious.                    I know we cannot make the decision for you, we can only encourage you to stop lying to yourself, stop listening to the lies of addiction.   Quitting Smoking is the only choice and you can do it.  Look at all of us.  We quit, we survived, we are thriving.  Think about doing this great kindness for yourself.
I am moving into the taking my life seriously stage saz.  Thanks for planting the seed, which others are now watering. Edited May 18, 2018 by lml
While it is slow suicide, the smokers death comes too soon.         Farewell cigarettes before they farewell you. Edited May 20, 2018 by Giveintowin
    No joke indead, it will kill you. If it was only the other stuff, all the other stuff, i could understand. But nope, you´re killing yourself slowly. Make a change, quit smoking.
On 6/4/2016 at 5:09 PM, Sazerac said:               Please, Take Your LIVES Seriously           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         In 'real' life and here on the QTrain, I see people being careless          about their lives and their quit,           like they have all the time in the world !                  'I'll quit next week, maybe tomorrow, I'll quit again sometime'.                    Are they not understanding how dangerous smoking is ?           It's a friggin' Slow Suicide !          The ramifications are Horrible.         This is no joke.            Ask our beautiful friend, Doreen !                                      I, too, used to be casual about quitting, casual about smoking.         so, it is no surprise to see others in Denial.          I wasn't listening to any kind of Sense, or Logic, or TRUTH, either.                    Then, suddenly, I 'got it'          and thanks to the information here,         I educated myself about Nicotine Addiction.                                     After that, there was simply no other choice            except to Quit and be Quick about it !          I would no longer live as a Slave, or die as one either !                                       I wish I could give that Eureka moment to everybody struggling with addiction           but, I don't know what happened or why.         At a certain point, I listened and Understood           and I give this to you,         Understand your addiction, and Be Free of it.           Your Lives are Precious.                    Bump for the Autumn
    You need this education and understanding about nicotine addiction in order to quit successfully for ever!      Without this and other quit smoking forums, I'm not sure I would have ever done the research on my own to come to this important understanding. That's the real benefit of smoking cessation boards is the wealth of useful and critical information that is available and the people who have used it in their own quits who can guide you to it. Reading the material, understanding it and putting it into practice is up to you as an individual. Quitting is our individual responsibility. Others can only assist and support you.
I watched a wonderful man wither away. He went from working on big rigs to needing a mobility scooter...not easy for a man like him.    After he was diagnosed COPD/CHF, man...he went downhill fast.   He turned into a beef jerky version of himself...like the all the life had just been sucked out of him and left him begging a tank for air. He still smoked tho. Colon cancer, leukaemia, nicotine addict.  Took almost 3 days for his body to drown him to death. His family by his side (well, when it wasn't THEIR turn to go smoke because YOU just had one!!)...you could smell that room from the entrance.   All the while he's dying, (before they finally put him in a medically induced coma) he'd pretend to be asleep...then he'd peep open an eye and yell at everyone "Go the fxxx home!" "I hate y'all crybabies" and of course "gimme a smoke" "I DONT CARE WHAT THEY SAY!!"    Did I mention this was all very hard on a man like him? His wife (God, I love this woman)...beautiful, red haired, angel of a woman; by his side 60yrs...he tells her "Get your axx outta here, You still ain't worth nothin."  She sat there 3 days with this...didn't ask one bit of help because (let's be honest) she didn't know how.  She said the most relieve she felt is when the monitors went flat...She said he snored heavily and she knew that was his last breath, and in that moment the weight of the world was finally off her shoulders. She had taken care of him for years leading up to his death. Not a wife, a companion, a friend, a lover, none of the things you think of when you look at your spouse on your wedding day.  She gave him pills, baths, fed him, lifted him, she was his chemo chamber-pot maid...   The last time I went by, she had already cleaned out the dark den (where he would spend most of the day watching tv and smoking) and was in the process of cleaning up the 2nd bedroom they had converted into a medical suite for him. She had even dyed her hair, which made my heart smile because she is totally worth it   Smoking doesn't only ruin the smoker's life...think about the people that love you.
    Powerful post Jane! The damage long term smoking does is horrible - and often not only to the smoker themselves!     
1 hour ago, c9jane29 said:                                  I watched a wonderful man wither away. He went from working on big rigs to needing a mobility scooter...not easy for a man like him.                    After he was diagnosed COPD/CHF, man...he went downhill fast.                   He turned into a beef jerky version of himself...like the all the life had just been sucked out of him and left him begging a tank for air. He still smoked tho. Colon cancer, leukaemia, nicotine addict.                  Took almost 3 days for his body to drown him to death. His family by his side (well, when it wasn't THEIR turn to go smoke because YOU just had one!!)...you could smell that room from the entrance.                   All the while he's dying, (before they finally put him in a medically induced coma) he'd pretend to be asleep...then he'd peep open an eye and yell at everyone "Go the fxxx home!" "I hate y'all crybabies" and of course "gimme a smoke" "I DONT CARE WHAT THEY SAY!!"                    Did I mention this was all very hard on a man like him?                 His wife (God, I love this woman)...beautiful, red haired, angel of a woman; by his side 60yrs...he tells her "Get your axx outta here, You still ain't worth nothin."                  She sat there 3 days with this...didn't ask one bit of help because (let's be honest) she didn't know how.                  She said the most relieve she felt is when the monitors went flat...She said he snored heavily and she knew that was his last breath, and in that moment the weight of the world was finally off her shoulders. She had taken care of him for years leading up to his death. Not a wife, a companion, a friend, a lover, none of the things you think of when you look at your spouse on your wedding day.                  She gave him pills, baths, fed him, lifted him, she was his chemo chamber-pot maid...                   The last time I went by, she had already cleaned out the dark den (where he would spend most of the day watching tv and smoking) and was in the process of cleaning up the 2nd bedroom they had converted into a medical suite for him. She had even dyed her hair, which made my heart smile because she is totally worth it           Smoking doesn't only ruin the smoker's life...think about the people that love you.                                 Sometimes I read a post here.. With tears falling freely....heart wrenching true life stories... Of the true horror of being a smoker....   I have yet not been able to talk about watching my bezzie mate of 62 years ...take her last breath ..suffering pancreatic cancer....in April... Still a smoker...her last one 24 hrs before she passed...   I will never stop missing her every second of every day.... It's hard to watch someone you love ...believe they carnt quit....
On 6/4/2016 at 4:09 PM, Sazerac said:               Please, Take Your LIVES Seriously           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         In 'real' life and here on the QTrain, I see people being careless          about their lives and their quit,           like they have all the time in the world !                  'I'll quit next week, maybe tomorrow, I'll quit again sometime'.                    Are they not understanding how dangerous smoking is ?           It's a friggin' Slow Suicide !          The ramifications are Horrible.         This is no joke.            Ask our beautiful friend, Doreen !                                      I, too, used to be casual about quitting, casual about smoking.         so, it is no surprise to see others in Denial.          I wasn't listening to any kind of Sense, or Logic, or TRUTH, either.                    Then, suddenly, I 'got it'          and thanks to the information here,         I educated myself about Nicotine Addiction.                                     After that, there was simply no other choice            except to Quit and be Quick about it !          I would no longer live as a Slave, or die as one either !                                       I wish I could give that Eureka moment to everybody struggling with addiction           but, I don't know what happened or why.         At a certain point, I listened and Understood           and I give this to you,         Understand your addiction, and Be Free of it.           Your Lives are Precious.                bump
    "Quitting smoking is not hard.  In fact, the whole process is quite enjoyable if we only focus on the benefits of being a non-smoker.  There is no need to focus on anything else because we’re not giving anything up.   We’re not missing out.  The cravings come and go and soon will be gone forever."      I agree with everything in this statement, with the exception of "Quitting smoking is not hard". I find it extremely hard. If it was not hard, more people would have successful quits. The trick is to remember the rest of this quote.        Whats your take?
It is one of the hardest things I have ever had to do! Now that I have some time under my belt, I hardly ever think about lighting a poison stick on fire and sticking it in my mouth. Currently, a friend is in the hospital suffering from lung cancer and doesn't have much time left...she quit smoking about 5-6 years before being diagnosed this past  April. The cancer metastasized to her brain....she is now a shell of her former self, is no longer verbal, cannot control bodily functions and needs round the clock care. To beat a crave, all I have to do is think about what she is going through...awful, awful, awful!
    Attitude towards quitting can make it as hard or as easy as you'd like.  There is some physical discomfort as your body frees itself of nicotine and the rest of the tars, yuck.  This is to most the "hard" part.  After that, there is a period of retraining yourself mentally.  This can be hard or easy.  You have to reach the point of accepting that you are never going to smoke again, you're done with it.  All successful quitters get there in their own fashion and time.  The NOPE pledge is a training tool in this.
    Attitude is the focus.  Yes it is hard at the beginning but when the process has gone by for several months you can see how easy it has become, just put your mind to it and realize in the end it is the best thing that you can do!!!
Quitting smoking was exceptionally hard for me--much harder, in fact, than I thought it would be, and I think I began the enterprise with relatively reasonable expectations.  But the rewards have also been exponentially greater than I ever imagined they could be--continuing to grow and help me even now, more than 17 1/2 years after my last cigarette (and about 16 years since my last craving of any kind).  A positive mindset is helpful, but if you're feeling miserable in the early weeks/months, that's OK.  Develop and trust a thoughtful and well-informed process that caters to your individual strengths, insist on absolute abstinence from smoking, and you WILL break through.  And when you do, I bet you'll be astonished at the ever-increasing benefits.         Christian99 17 1/2 Years Quit
    It's hard in the beginning but what life changing thing isn't? What are you prepared to pay for your freedom? If this was war, you might be asked to pay with your life but quitting smoking won't cost nearly that steep a price.      Look to your smoke free future. It's that bright, shiny thing straight ahead of you. Don't ever look back because your smokey past is done ... over!
    My take is that there was nothing easy or enjoyable about it. So glad to be past that first year!
    It took a full year and change before I was grooving in my new normal.  There were gnarly moments but, I didn't care,   my commitment was unwavering and I was willing to go through anything in order to be free.      I really considered the process as an adventure and I love adventures so, that provided some impetus    plus, reading peoples stories helped me to see the light at the end of the tunnel and celebrate little victories.       Learning about the Significance of Rewards was a great tool and v. fun, 'spoiling myself' for craves/triggers overcome. It was an enjoyable technique that helped smooth the rough edges of a quit.
Quitting  is awfully hard for me. I’m on Chantix and it is helping a lot but it doesn’t take away the habits I have formed over the decade I’ve smoked. Edited July 12 by Diane R
    What Sazerac said Diane  " reading peoples stories helped me to see the light at the end of the tunnel and celebrate little victories"      You can go backward on any pages on this forum and read people's stories and comments. You will be able to relate a lot of these comments to the feelings you're having with your own quit and then not only will you feel that you are not alone but you will come to believe that when others tell you it will get better then ..... it actually will. It just takes time is all. We are all the same. We go through the same process and providing we adhere to the NOPE principal, we all remain life long nonsmokers and are very comfortable as such  
11 hours ago, Rozuki said:              It is one of the hardest things I have ever had to do! Now that I have some time under my belt, I hardly ever think about lighting a poison stick on fire and sticking it in my mouth. Currently, a friend is in the hospital suffering from lung cancer and doesn't have much time left...she quit smoking about 5-6 years before being diagnosed this past  April. The cancer metastasized to her brain....she is now a shell of her former self, is no longer verbal, cannot control bodily functions and needs round the clock care. To beat a crave, all I have to do is think about what she is going through...awful, awful, awful!          I am so very sorry. Its terrifying that she was quit years before she was diagnosed....
15 hours ago, Paul723 said:             All successful﻿﻿ quitters get there in their own fashion and﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ ﻿time                ^ That!!!!!     Now, only 18 months later, I can't believe how easy it was... BUT that's bull, you read my posts from a year ago and it was hard...you read my posts from 16 months ago...Hooley Dooley I was crawling may way over broken glass, it was hard but each day it got a teeny tiny bit easier...I can't tell you the last time I thought I'd like a smoke, I don't remember...but it's kind of like childbirth (and if you've been there you will get this) during labour it's horrible, and painful, and you swear never, ever again because it can be hell but you see that bub and before long your thinking you could have another... Not because it wasn't hard but because once your through it it doesn't seem as hard as it was.        Honestly this was the easiest quit I have had because I didn't focus on how long it would last etc I just worried about one day...committed to not smoking for 1 day...woke up in the morning and committed again...I just cared about that one day, here and now, not a week or a month or a year just one day.        And I laughed...laughed and laughed watched so much crap on you tube... comedians, people trying to understand Aussie slang..stupid stuff...but you know what laughing does, it releases endorphins....wanna know what they are...they are your bodies natural feel happy hormones...makes the hard stuff easier.
    Two groups of people tell The Big Fat Lie:  Successful Quitters: Boy that was THE HARDEST THING I ever did. I'll never do that again ...    Failed Quitter: Shit, that was TOO DAMNED HARD. I'll never make it.     Don't believe 'em, folks.   Quitting is as easy or as hard as you choose to make it.    It is, indeed, a choice.    You can choose to embrace The Suck and be happy about it ...    ... or you can fight it the whole way and live a life of difficult misery.  The Suckage Level is gonna be high at times for all of us. It's what makes us addicts.  The Big Choice is in how we react and keep drivin' on to The Goal.  We can make it easy on ourselves.   We can make it hard on ourselves.   It's as easy or as hard as we make it.  EZPZ
Sorry to hear about your friend @Rozuki....sending prayers ....     We are all different ..some take the nice quick route to Quit ...some of us take the slower route ...it's just about getting there ..in your own time ...   When I first Quit ,I thought it was very hard ...but not as hard as amputation....  Not as hard as spending time on a oxygen machine 16 hours a day ....    Whatever you are feeling Michelle ..is all Temporary ...and will pass ....
This lady never thought quitting was going to happen.   Here I am at 11 months smoke free and the thoughts of smoking again are a thing of the past.    I know it was very difficult for about two months.  I was very crabby and difficult to live with.   Now I feel more free and know I will never visit this part of my life again.    I love to see the newbies appear and help them to find the same freedom.
    I'm a very practical and scientific person (maybe even a little cynical).  I could never convince myself that it was all about my state of mind, and it could be as easy or as hard as I wanted it to be.  For me it was HARD.  Is there a way I can emphasis that word even more?  I felt that I had a real knot in my stomach for a long time.  It was like a physical kick in the gut and a non-stop mental obsession.   But despite it being really difficult, I did it.  I truly think if you go all in, there is nothing in this world that will prevent you from achieving your goals.  And the good news with quitting smoking is that time and distance do eventually erase the desire and make the quality of your life so much better.   So, easy or hard, it can be done.  It really must be done.
I read Alien Carr’s Easy Way book. It helped.  What helped me the most was really adopting the philosophy/ mantra of this forum. Not one puff...  I became quite the fan of an old poster on another forum & adopted his way of thinking.  Just make it through the day until my head hits the pillow. Wake up and say to yourself. I did it! I’m going to do it again.  Then do it.        For most- myself included- it sucked. Hard.  But when I fought like mad all day & made it to my pillow smoke-free another day. The joy of completing another smoke free day far outweighed the agony of fighting monster craves.        Post SOS when needed. It works.  So does NOPT/NOPE Edited July 12 by Lust4Life
    I wouldn't call the early stages of my quit "hard", more irritating than anything.  Dealing with the quitter's paradox: "I don't want to be a smoker but I would like to smoke a cigarette right now."  Those persistent, nagging thoughts about smoking.  The self-doubt and internal bargaining and negotiating...yeah, the beginning of the process was a pain in the ass.  Worth every bit of the effort and then some, but irritating.     I didn't really focus on the "hard" or "easy."  I stayed focused on the word "simple."  Don't put things in your mouth and set them on fire...this process could not be more simple.
Hello Everyone, I’ve been taking Chantix to quilting smoking. I’m on my 3rd week. So far it’s working. I’ve been a smoker for at least 40 years. This is my 3rd  attempt  To quit(hope 3rd time is the charm). I quit the first time for over a year and thought I could have one and stop. And at first I could. But I got to  confident  That I could only have one once in a while. Nope I can’t I’m  truly addicted to nicotine. I can’t have just 1 or 2. I know this now. I’m now down to a few cigarettes a day. Most of the time I don’t even smoke half of the cigarette. And it definitely doesn’t taste the same. I think I’m battling the habit at this point. Chantix has been a little tough on me. The  nausea is the worst of it. So yesterday I took a  dramamine  And it stopped the nausea. That has been the only side effect I’ve had. I have been very  tired but that’s  The nicotine withdrawal I know from the last time I quit. As anyone esle quit with Chantix?
    Hi Diane - Congratulations on making this choice!! I cannot give you any feedback on Chantix (i did cold turkey) but i have heard good things! Good luck, you can do this - remember you are stronger than the nicotine!  
Welcome aboard QuitTrain @Diane R. First off, well done to reaching the 3rd week of your quit. I have never used Chantix before so I have no experience on its side effects. Please consider seeing a doctor if Chantix gives you trouble. Maybe the following videos will help (I haven't seen the second one, found it in Joel's collection of videos on his channel, it may help though).     https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=27eei-r6BvQhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bZj9tEEkaEs     All the best and reach out to us in the SOS section at any time!!! Here's the thread on posting an SOS:  https://www.quittrain.com/topic/8-posting-an-sos/
Hello Diane, welcome.   I believe @Nancy quit with Chantix and has a long successful quit.  There may be others.    I, like @Christa326 quit cold turkey.   This site supports ALL quits.       Let us know when you quit and we will be great support.     In the meantime, watch the videos that @Ankush so kindly found for you  and continue with your education about nicotine addiction.  You may find this thread helpful 10 Ways To Effectively Use This Forum To Help Yourself Quit SmokingEdited July 11 by Sazerac
    Welcome aboard Diane, we have lots of successful quitters who used chantix. I quit the first time using it but didn't take it for the length of time recommended and relapsed. So my clue for you would be to take it for the time recommended which I believe is three months.     As far as the nausea I found that eating something as small as a mini donut before you take your pill worked great. You just want to have a little something in your stomach.    
    HI and welcome Diane I believe @JimHannoonen quit using this method too and he's been quit long term. Maybe he will chime in on this quit method too. I have also heard good things about it although some seem to get bad side effects while some don't. If it's working well for you ..... that's great! Stick around and you'll get awesome support here.
Oh haaaaaaay!       Yes, I quit with Chantix and initially, it was all sunshine and rainbows. It made one of the hardest things I'd ever do not so bad at all. I took it for a few weeks, set my quit date and that was that. I can't say that I wouldn't have been able to quit without it, but it helped a lot.       My issues started when I weaned myself off of the Chantix. I didn't have that chemical crutch anymore and had to deal with the reality that I couldn't smoke and that was hard for me. The mood swings and everything else that typically comes with quitting showed up. It was a rough patch, but I never smoked. Never even considered it. Not once.  After about the 9 month mark, I finally felt normal again. It was a rough road, but of course, it was worth it.     I got nauseous a time or two, but making sure I had food in my belly before I took it solved that problem.      At the end of the day, whether you stay quit or not is up to YOU. Chantix will help, but It's a decision YOU have to make and stick with NO MATTER WHAT. If you're committed, you won't smoke. If you're not committed, you will. It really is as easy as that.     I smoked for 30 years and was as addicted as anyone and here I am 2.5 year later, smoke free. If I can do it, you can do it. Stay strong, stick to your guns and you got it.
Thanks everyone for the support. While I am using Chantix I know I have to want to quit. I quit with laser treatments the first time and I was smoke free for well over a year. I just need a little help. I will keeping telling myself I won’t be a salve to cigarettes. When I really stop and think how much they run my life I’m quite pissed off. As I’m sure anyone who has ever smoked know they are calling the shots. I never went anywhere with making sure I had enough cigarettes. Since I don’t like to be controlled this should me a good tool for me. I’m ready to me done with them. Each time I think I need a cigarette that what I remind myself. Only 2 cigarette today so far. And I’m a heavy smoker. Also live with a smoker. Makes it a little harder. But he is good about not bringing them home. He has alway been able to not smoke when he’s home. Not me.
I quit using Chantix and celebrated 6 years free last week.  Always take Chantix with food...the only time I was nauseous was when I took it on an empty stomach.  Keep in mind that the Chantix takes the edge off withdrawal symptoms, but you still have to make the commitment.  Quitting can be uncomfortable, or sometimes even miserable, but it will not kill you and all symptoms are temporary.  You can do this...as you have discovered the hard way, we are all one puff away from a pack a day.
-ankush I’m under a doctors care with Chantix. I wouldn’t take it any other way. And it’s not for everyone. I have none of the other side effect or I won’t take it. Only nauseous, but my stomach can be a bit on the  sensitive side.Edited July 11 by Diane R
    I myself went cold turkey but I have seen others use Chantix  with success.  Whatever helps you to quit and using the medical approach may be of great benefit as long as you follow your Doctors orders.  Some that did not succeed with Chantix all stated that they had stopped using it too soon.  
I have seen that people who quit taking Chantix before the 3 months is up almost always start again. It’s not an option for me to give up. I have other health issues to deal with as well as quitting. So more  motivation to stop. Thanks everyone for all the support!
14 hours ago, Diane R said: -ankush I’m under a doctors care with Chantix. I wouldn’t take it any other way. And it’s not for everyone. I have none of the other side effect or I won’t take it. Only nauseous, but my stomach can be a bit on the  sensitive side.         Ok, as others have mentioned, maybe have a bite before taking Chantix.
I have friends who have successfully quit with Chantix... Everyone I know who had success with it did the full 3 months.        I have a failed quit using it because it didn't agree with me. If you do get any odd side effects please see your doctor immediately don't down play them. Adverse reactions are very rare but they do happen. If things don't feel right, then please see the doctor.
    I’ve only had the sour stomach and that’s going away now. I alway take it with food. And a full glass of water. I’m hoping to be done with cigarettes my Monday. I’m starting to feel better each day. The  fatigue has been bad. And I know I still have a way to go, but I’ll make it.  And thanks for the support everyone. 
6 hours ago, Diane R said:              I’ve only had the sour stomach and that’s going away now. I alway take it with food. And a full glass of water. I’m hoping to be done with cigarettes my Monday. I’m starting to feel better each day. The  fatigue has been bad. And I know I still have a way to go, but I’ll make it.  And thanks for the support everyone.          What about the dreams.  Are you handling the dreams OK?   Are you having any intense dreams?        I heard  tales of nightmares before I stared Chantix, but didn’t experience any myself.  The dreams were the most interesting effect of using Chantix for meEdited July 12 by Wayne045
Yes @Wayne045, the dreams were the best part about taking chantix, loved them!
On 7/11/2019 at 1:19 PM, Diane R said:              I have seen that people who quit taking Chantix before the 3 months is up almost always start again. It’s not an option for me to give up. I have other health issues to deal with as well as quitting. So more  motivation to stop. Thanks everyone for all the support!               Chantix or no chantix,      When you make the commitment to yourself to stop smoking    and when you understand nicotine addiction, you will understand that you can ever take another puff ever again.     This will lead you to awesome changes.
I’m not having to many dreams I’ve had 1 or 2 there where funny dreams. No nightmares. And I do know I can’t smoke again. I’m addicted to nicotine. But the Chantix as allowed me to not care so much about smoking. I light 1 and don’t really want it. Everyone must find what works for them. If I could do it on mine own I would have by now. It’s not  convenient to be a smoker.
    "Everyone must find what works for them."   Absolutely correct! We all face the same challenges but we surpass those challenges using different methods.    The method that is right for us.
Despite my experience I'm not against Champix (what it's called down here) and I'm sorry if I gave that impression ... I know too many successful ex smokers who used Champix for it not to be worth trying if cold turkey is not for you. It's not like I didn't have an NRT crutch at the start of my quit. If it gets you over the line to freedom they go for it...I'm with you 100% of the way.
I wish I could just put them down. I’ve been a smoker for 40 plus years. Quitting is one of the hardest things to do and staying quit is even hard. I also live with a smoker. This makes it much harder. He is the one that could just put them down. He can come home and not smoke all weekend. I wish! Hope everyone has a great day.
    You're going to succeed Diane, between the chantix and us for support you got this  Enjoy your girl time 
    Hi Diane and welcome,   Everyone must find what works for them.  With that being said: I would reach into my goody bag and use whatever forms I had to ease the withdrawal !!!! I mean whatever!!!!! My motto is Do anything, any way, any how NOT TO TAKE ANOTHER PUFF!!!  And then I would celebrate OFTEN!!!! every half hour(lol) or hour!!!! seriously. I was making some life changing choices and I meant  business!!! I Can not let anything, or anyone get in the middle of my FREEDOM !!!! Hang in there Ms. Diane, read alot on here and stay close. YOU CAN do this              
Thanks Queen Bee! Well still on my mini vacation. I did ok yesterday. Had a few drinks. But I only smoke 3 cigarettes all day. So I hope the one I just lite and put out was my last. Didn’t even want it. And last night I thought I would have one before I went to bed and than picked it up had in my hand and decided I didn’t want or need it. So I think that was a win. I’m get closer to not having another puff! Edited July 14 by Diane R
You're well on your way, Diane!  I didn't use Chantix but I did cut down and "practice" not smoking in various situations for quite a while prior to actually quitting.  This method isn't recommended by most people, but I was such a heavy smoker for 40 years and was used to smoking everywhere (house, car, outside of work, etc.) so cutting back and getting used to not always being able to smoke was a huge help for me.  I imagine cutting back with Chantix helps in somewhat the same way, with the big bonus of making you have less desire to smoke.  Whatever works for you is the best way to get through this, and it sounds as if you are determined to make this your final quit.   We'll be rooting you on all the way!
Thanks Jordan7! There is no cookie cutter recipe to quit! We are all different and what works for some don’t for everyone. Habit are hard to break too. Not just the addiction. I unfortunately have both. When you do anything for 40 years to hard to just stop. It becomes a part of everyday life. At lest my not running to smoke every time I feel stressed. And that a big step for me. I’m coming here and reading others post.
Women Who Smoke At Risk of Vulval Cancer    27 June 2019    By Frances Hardy    In the UK, 58 women are diagnosed and 21 die each day from gynaecological cancers. Here a doctor explains the impact smoking can have on a woman's body For many people, the idea of developing cancer is hard to comprehend.   Yet young female smokers are at particular risk of developing the disease – in parts of their body they might not even know could be affected by their habit.   Dr Jeff Foster, a private GP based in Leamington Spa, explains: “Smoking is a serious risk factor for many cancers including lung, breast and throat. But it’s easy to forget it is having the same impact all over the body.”  What Does Smoking Do to Your Reproductive Organs?   The Impact of Smoking on Male and Female Fertility  Gender and Smoking: How Men and Women Differ    In particular, smoking is a risk factor for gynaecological cancers. In the UK, 58 women are diagnosed and 21 die each day from one of these cancers, which includes womb, ovarian, cervical, vaginal and vulval.    This last is probably the least known type - yet vulval cancer is diagnosed in 1,000 women each year, according to the Eve Appeal, the charity which specialises in gynaecological cancers.     Mostly found in women over 60 – although younger cases are becoming more common – vulval cancer has been linked to the human papilloma virus (HPV) infection as well as a weakened immune system. It can also be due to a skin condition called lichen sclerosus.   And according to Cancer Research UK, researchers have found a clear link between vulval cancer and smoking. Researchers have found a clear link between vulval cancer and smoking   This is partly because smoking weakens our immune system so that it’s harder to get rid of infections such as HPV which cause cancer.   It is also possible, says Cancer Research UK, that the harmful substances in tobacco damage cells in the vulva directly and so lead to the development of vulval cancer.  Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) is a risk factor for vulval cancer as well as cervical cancer. It is possible that being a smoker may mean that you are less able to get rid of the HPV infection from your body. One of the dangers of this type of cancer is that its intimate location means women may not notice early symptoms, so diagnosis comes later than it should. “Many women will only be diagnosed with vulval cancer,” Dr Foster explains, “when they are examined for something else, like a repeat smear test.”      However, there may be earlier signs, including a new itch or sore patch, a lump or swelling on the labia, or a burning pain when you pass urine. "Women should never be embarrassed to contact their GP if they experience any of these," he adds.  Treatment is surgery, Dr Foster says, unless the cancer has spread into lymph nodes. “Vulval cancer doesn’t usually spread too far so chemo is not often needed although a course of radiotherapy may be used.” Survivors of vulval cancer are grateful but tell of operations which have left them feeling less feminine as a result.  Clare Baumhauer, in her 40s, from Kent, explained in her blog that radiotherapy had sent her into an early menopause, saying: “In May 2016 I had the surgery to remove a tumour from my perineum, but they couldn’t get clear margins so I had radiotherapy but unfortunately it had spread to my lymph nodes so I then had two further operations on my lymph nodes and more radiotherapy. Giving up smoking is essential  "Which put me straight into the menopause and I now have lymphedema in both my legs, pelvis and abdomen, among other side effects.” On the whole, survival rates are good. According to Cancer Research UK, for all women with vulval cancer more than 80 percent will survive their cancer for five years or more after diagnosis. "Giving up smoking is essential," says Dr Foster, to "prevent further cell damage and to help your body recover faster."    “Better still,” he says, “young women could be encouraged to give up smoking before cell changes make cancer inevitable.”
    It was horrific lol. But it passed. I'm still wearing a patch. I can sleep with them on as long as I put them on in the early afternoon instead of evening. It does help during the day though. Its just that mornings are my strongest craving. But I've been up for an hour and haven't seriously thought of smoking. Yay. I'm going to one of my recovery meetings at noon where many people smoke and its sort of "normalized" but I'll be with a nonsmoking family member so I won't be tempted to bum one. I'll do my best to remember why I'm quitting, look at smoking as something horrible and destructive that endangers my life instead of romancing it. Thats what it will take when I'm at a meeting. Its NOT okay, its NOT "normal", its NOT something that I do because everyone else is doing it, I will NOT push down the fear and knowledge that I'm endangering my life. I will remember why I'm doing this, and so will ya'll!
    I had my never smoker husband go places with me the first few months because I didn't trust myself not to stop and buy a pack so good on you for taking a nonsmoking family member  I also used my air cigarette when cravings got really bad. I simply pretended I was holding an actual cigarette and then went through the motions of "smoking it". I may have looked like an idiot but it sure worked to trick my mind into thinking it was getting the real thing  
    Thats actually a big help...I used a medium sized straw for a while last time. Who cares if it looks silly...and it probably doesn't because I think most people know its a substitute for a cig. I'm a sneaky person...if I decide I want to smoke I will actually insist on going somewhere alone...sometimes when I make the decision to smoke, the barriers I put down for myself go out the window. Its like...I can put all these barriers up but I have the power to take them down if I want to smoke. Thats why its so critical to remember why I want to smoke and honor that commitment to myself. Must remember that.
    You are going to have smokey thoughts, no doubt about it.   Push them out of your head, replace them with a thought or sight of beauty...   Look !  the light on that leaf, the shadow on that wall, the color of that edge of sky etc. Think of a loved one's smile or laughter.  Think of anything/everything that brings beauty to your senses.      The sooner you identify smokey thoughts and replace them, the sooner your brain will reward you.
    I changed my morning routine completely.  Not so much a choice as it was a necessity.       So much of my morning routine revolved around smoking it made change unavoidable.       Starting a quit is the perfect time to create new habits.  You're already out of your comfort zone and things don't quite feel normal.  Replace smoking time with something more healthy and productive.        Out with the old, in with the new.
    "I can put all these barriers up but I have the power to take them down if I want to smoke﻿."       You said this above @MichelleDoesntSmokeAnymore and it's true. You have the power over whether you smoke or don't smoke, just like we all do so use  ALL that power to not smoke this time. Change your old thinking and channel all that power to your quit  
    Thank u all....very helpful
    I wouldn't kneel down and suck on a car's tailpipe.  I hold my breath when I walk through a cloud of exhaust. Probably safer than smoking or vaping.
Let's all throw in those cancer sticks we haven't smoked since we Quit ...  I throw in my 43,257....burn you buggers !!!    In honour of all the folks taken far too early !!!
6855 for me
36,850 would be a low estimate.
17,600 or so for me...up in smoke!!
Here's my 17,046!    Edited July 10 by jillar
I would like to take the 33,136 cigarettes I haven't smoked and stick them up the ass of each Board Member of R.J. Reynolds.
To burn the darkness away I will add my 12,700!!!!!!
7083. *Uche uche*
    Can't remember how many cuz my ticker doesn't work but they are now added in!
65,818 on the fire for loved ones lost....Doreen, in special memory of Tony and Anne...Edited July 10 by Nancy
Here are my 25,460.  Yuck!
1,311 days Free.
Sheesh you want me to do math --- 539 days give or take a couple!!!!         Edited June 28 by Martian5
    Whatever my ticker in my signature says, it's too early for math lol
    I just asked google(lazy me)! 
331 days seems so much more impressive than 10 mos. and 26 days!
Approx. 870 days...but who's counting...Edited June 28 by Rozuki
868 days for you Roz, i just looked at your quit date and 2/10/2010 was my orig quit date. You learn from my mistake (blown 9/24 2012)
1,685 days.         I can't believe I used to smoke.  I was around some smokers today and the smell was horrible.       Stick with it if you are early on in your quit.  Things get so much better with time and the freedom is definitely worth any early struggles.
2yr 275 days Per one ticker pretty damn awesome
16 hours ago, Lust4Life said:               2yr 275 days Per one ticker                 pretty damn awesome         1,006 days
28,968 hours since I lit one up.        Good riddance.
2,152.days smoke free !!!!....and still counting ....
7 years, 11 days smoke free (this is also 2,567 days)   51,347 cigarettes not smoked        Holy sh*t that's a lot of cigarettes that would have ended up in my lungs!!
Holy Sh*t that's right, that is a lot of cigarettes!        3,162‬ days here, that translates into about 94,840 cigarettes not smoked for me.       Yikes!
When I started on this journey I loved looking at my ticker and seeing the days add up.....still do! My mom quit July 20 of 1991 and asked me for her stats...so I am reaching out to you @Whispers         How many days would that be for her?     Edited July 4 by Rozukigrammar
1 hour ago, Rozuki said:                How many days would that be for her?            10,211 days Wow!!!!!!!  Just google it Rozuki
My stat is I was quit all day today.    That's 1 more day quit than I ever had when I was a smoker.
@Rozuki, if your mom smoked a pack a day (20 cigs), at $3.00 a pack ( I was guessing) and quit July 20, 1991:       Oh and congratulations to your mom @Rozuki
I've been quit for 17 1/2 years, and by a conservative estimate I have not spent  $48,106.50 on cigarettes that I otherwise would have spent during that time.   That's assuming, of course, that I would have survived the widowmaker heart attack and cardiac arrest I experienced (at age 40) seven years AFTER I quit, which every physician I've encountered tells me would not have happened had I still been a smoker.           Christian99 17 1/2 Years QuitEdited July 4 by Christian99
On 7/4/2019 at 12:40 AM, jillar said:   @Rozuki, if your mom smoked a pack a day (20 cigs), at $3.00 a pack ( I was guessing) and quit July 20, 1991:                                       Oh and congratulations to your mom @Rozuki          Thanks, @jillar!  I am going to visit with my Mom tomorrow and show her these stats....she will be amazed and proud!
Eugh :D
Disgusting!
So gross....
I damn near puked watching this. Why did I ever smoke again?!
And where does all that tar go?   HERE!   It is gross. I know. But for those of us with early quits this may be a good reminder of what and why we are doing...
Thanks for this. I mean I understood it damaged lungs but I don't think I ever actually connected the blackness on our lungs was actually a tar based product (in my head smoke blackens things so I didn't consider tar as well).  Just reinforces a great decision by all of us really. x
    Smoking kills ....emphysema kills .....don't leave it ...quit now !!!
How to motivate yourself to quit smoking and what steps did you take?  
I was fairly typical I think, in that I chose to ignore the obvious risks and damage associated by tobacco.  I ignored them because I was addicted. I ignored them because I was frightened. I was frightened of failing.  So, I would laugh, I would tell people 'Live life! Enjoy every moment! We all have to die some time of something.'  I bought Allen Carrs book 'the EasyWay' and I read it. (Not for the first time) I sat down and really thought about smoking. About mortality. I thought about my wife. About how she had moved away from her beloved London and her beloved family to support me and my work. I thought about COPD. I thought about my wife as a carer. I thought about dying. I though about my wife all alone. I decided that I was right. We do all have to die of something. We should enjoy every moment. Did I really enjoy smoking? Did I need to hurry my death along? No. And No.  I simply followed the instructions in the book. I chose a date. I committed to quitting smoking and celebrating that quit immediately. I quit on vacation. My wife still smoked. So on the first morning, after breakfast, we carried on our routine and went up to the terrace for our after-breakfast cigarette and espresso; the obvious difference being that I did not smoke. She was worried, watching me from the corner of her eye. Me? I was fine. I quit.  As the vacation continued, my wife decided that she would quit too, and smoke her last cigarette before we got the flight home. Did I crave? Yes. Sometimes. Did I sometimes rely on support from like minded people online? Yes (mostly lunatics here!). How do I feel now? Absolutely fantastic.
I kept picturing my kids growing up without their mammy, they were what I quit for,   I watched videos on you tube of people dying from lung, throat, mouth cancer etcI changed my morning routine because that was always the hardest for me, my favourite smoke was first thing in the morning when kids were still asleep, so I'd get into the shower first instead and put loads of body moisturiser on, I found when I smelled yummy it really helped keep the craves at bay because I didn't want to ruin the nice smell with the stench of cigs.
I was self motivated for the first week.  I quit just to see if I could.Then, I 'discovered' Joel's videos,  they are now on site HERE .Once I educated myself about my addictionthere was simply no turning back.I had many patterns to change and one by one was able to dissociate the tobacco habit from my life, sometimes by tricking myself, sometimes through education, sometimes through fierce will, and sometimes just slogging through one more smoke free day.Commitment to NOPE and education were  two major motivations..
In one of Joel's videos he says that he hopes to screw up smoking for us forever. lol  It's true because once we know the truth, we can never look at smoking the same, even those who go back to smoking.  Yep, Joel screwed up smoking for all of us.  I'm going to find that video because it's a good one.  :) My motivation to quit was out of extreme guilt that I was robbing my kids of time with their father because I was on my way to an early death.  It's this very reason that I told my doctor that I wanted to quit and could quit but I enjoyed it too much (he laughed at that called me on my bullshit).  When I told him that my daughter was the most important thing in my life he responded "No she's not.  Smoking is the most important thing in your life so don't sit here and tell me that your daughter is because she's not.  You're an addict and the only reason why you're not out stealing to feed your addiction is because cigarettes are legal." Wow.  Tough words to hear but it made me look at smoking in an entirely different way.  For the first time I had to admit the truth that I was an addict.  He cared enough to piss me off to get me to save my own life.  After I left his office I remember lighting up a cigarette and thinking that smoking will never be the same again.  I thought about what he said and he was right.  I was putting smoking before my family because of all the times they wanted me to stay indoors to play a game, watch a movie or do something else and I had to get up and leave them to go and inhale poison.  As soon as I quit this huge weight was lifted from me and that burden was gone.  Sure, I may die from a smoking related disease or I may not but I do know one thing for damn sure; I will not die a smoker.  I used to smoke.  That is all. If you're lurking and are thinking about quitting, please realize that you're an addict just like a junkie or an alcoholic.  Treat it like and addiction and take control back of your life.  As soon as you quit you'll feel better.  Focus on how your blood no longer is polluted with carbon monoxide, your blood pressure lowers and you instantly are less likely to die of a sudden heart attack.  Do you know how many people are found dead with a cigarette next to their body?  A lot.  They died as they were puffing on a cigarette.  I don't know about you but I wouldn't want to be found dead that way. 
" You're an addict and the only reason why you're not out stealing to feed your addiction is because cigarettes are legal."   This. Newbies do me a favor read this one sentence to yourself over and over. Then go over and watch these documentaries. When I was in the throes of withdrawal I wondered "how the hell is this legal?!?!" many times.We are all addicts but the good news is that we can break free once we become educated. 
I got really bad pneumonia and refused to go to the hospital like my doctor wanted because I knew they wouldn't let me smoke. I came home and tried to smoke the rest of the night sick as hell and coughing up a lung with each inhale. I stood there in the parking lot (only place I was allowed to smoke at my apt) and it hit me.  I like breathing, and I am too damn smart to be standing there hacking and desperately trying to take a drag,looking like a sick fool instead of in the hospital getting better. At the very least my kids deserve better than that in their mother.  After that I just started one hour at a time. On day 6 I found you guys and now I am heading to a month with loads of education and support.
when i found out my daughter was pregnant with my first grandchild....this little angel right here..  that's when I vowed that this little girl was never going to know her mom-mom as a smoker.  I kept my promise and will continue to do so.  Unfortunately...she spends much time at the back door asking her pop pop to come inside.  That's sad...and I am so grateful that's not me.  I picked up the dusty Allen Carr book on my shelf that had periodically haunted me...and I started reading...again.  This time though...I was smarter and searched for online support...and found it...along with the Joel videos...which i watched...over and over and over again.
What made me decide to finally give up smoking was when I went for my yearly eye exam (diabetic so have to go yearly) and I did not hear the usual "everything looks great; no sign of diabetes in the eyes."  Instead I heard "there is some very slight hemorrhaging from the diabetes in both eyes".  When I went home, I researched how to stop the progression of this eye vessel hemorrhaging and everything I read said QUIT SMOKING....DO NOT SMOKE...NO SMOKING.  So, since I value my eyesight, I decided to make a plan that day.  My family and I were going on a cruise vacation to the Pacific Northwest in mid-May, and I vowed that when I came back from vacation I would quit that weekend.   I chose to use an e-cigarette to quit.  I had tried every method out there (except drugs like Chantix) and never succeeded much beyond a day or two.  I also knew in my mind and heart and soul that I had to succeed this time in order to improve things for my health.  I did quit that weekend, and I have not had not one puff since then.  I do still use an e-cig; perhaps not as often as I did in the beginning.  I do not use nicotine in my e-juice, just the juice.  When I'm stressed or just getting a craving (which are getting very weak now), it's there and I use it.  I have been nicotine free for 6 months and plan to continue the remainder of my life.  I know at some point I will stop with the e-cigarette as well, but until I feel confident I can go without it, I will continue with it. I hope this helps someone out there who is trying to decide to quit or not.  Quitting was the best decision and best action I've ever taken in my life.  I always thought it would be impossible for me because I was that addicted.  But I found out that if you really are resolved to being smoke-free, then you can conquer anything.
Although I had smoked for 52 years....I had never considered my self as a drug addict.....To me I was just a smoker....It was Allen Carr who motivated me .....he made me see smoking for what it really is...All the excuses I had used over the years...He made me take a long look at myself....and question what I really was getting out of it.....It turned out to be nothing....I made a promise to quit to special people in my life....and I intend to keep that promise...
    bumpity bump
I set a date. I circled it in red and told myself daily that was the day I would quit smoking.  (Mother's Day was close enough and appropriate as my kids were a big factor in my decision.)    I made a quit list and put it right at eye level on the fridge...read it daily; it's still there and I still do:)   The day before I quit, I divided what was left in the pack I had (you know, the ol' romance). I actually smoked my "last one" at 6:30pm that Saturday at my mom's.  Then that was it. I was a non-smoker the next day when I woke up, and have been ever since. Plus, I read like a crazy person about nicotine addiction and learned that I'm no better than any other drug abuser.
Realizing that I was now over 40, I figured it's probably a good time to quit taking my health for granted. That was the nagging thought that was always on my mind every time i lit up.    Plus, I had racked up a few "four hour quits" over the years.       Steps - One thing that helped was hearing someone I know say "I gotta have my ambien!" I thought, "Am I as hooked on tobacco? That's pitiful!" I mean jeeze!    I wondered what life would be like without needing a cigarette all the time. I chain smoked when I wasn't at work. Last time i wondered what it would be like to do something big, my life  changed for the better.     So I was gonna quit on Oct 2nd 2017 but of course it only lasted four hours. I thought, "Alright, I will allow myself three cigarettes a day (down from 30) but Friday I need to quit quit. I gave away the rest of my smokes (about three packs worth), got rid of my cigarette machine (one of those top-o-matic type machines) and cigarette tubes, and that Friday Oct 6 at 5:30 AM, took my last hit.      I was highly motivated to quit. I was having problems breathing, I was coughing a lot, breath rattling at night worse than ever, I was scared. I used to joke that I would probably die by age 60. But that meant less than 20 years to live, if my guesstimate were accurate.      If the "11 minutes off your life per cigarette" average is anywhere close to true, I have lost about three years. No big deal but the years I am around will be better without smoking those stupid-ass cigarettes.     What does my doctor say? Besides telling me to get my diet under control (groan), she says my lungs sound perfect. I doubt they ARE perfect but at least they are not getting worse.
I would light up in my car on my way to my office. Three drags in, I would be coughing up a lung and put it out. 5 minutes later, I would be relighting it, and hacking again. Once I finally made it through a few, I felt fine. On the way home, I looked at the pack. Only three left. After these three, I will quit. And of course, I stopped and bought a carton. After doing this a few times, i again was on the way home and looked to see again I had three left. This time I forgot to get the carton. I was out on my deck. I looked up and asked God for the strength to make the decision.  I promised i would go through it all on my own if he just helped me decide. BOOM! I felt it immediately.  Call it inner strength, or Divine intervention.  It does not matter to me. I did not smoke those last three. I threw them out. A week later I joined QSMB and never looked back.Edited October 16, 2018 by gonfishn21Mis spelling
    I never thought about health, was also lucky enough not to have serious issues. My impulse was new perfume that nobody could smell on me because of the cigarettes stench. Besides, i was feeling heavy and ugly. In other words, vanity made me quit 
51 minutes ago, brand.new.ela said:             I never thought about health, was also lucky enough not to have serious issues. My impulse was new perfume that nobody could smell on me because of the cigarettes stench. Besides, i was feeling heavy and ugly. In other words, vanity made me quit   Hey Ela! Any reason that brought you here and to this quit is a great reason  (Vanity included!!) You will soon be stepping over the threshold of the Lido Deck. How frickin' great is that!!
On 11/24/2014 at 5:10 AM, El Bandito said:              So, I would laugh, I would tell people 'Live life! Enjoy every moment! We all have to die some time of something.'              I heard this many times from smokers and in fact used to say it myself, then I realized:  Yes, we have to die from something, but we don't WANT to die do we?   So why hasten our death by smoking.
    I put the cash for a packet of smokes in a jam jar every day and gleefully watched it grow.     I kept the tally on a pad of paper, in one week I had a hundred bucks !
14 hours ago, reciprocity said:             Hey Ela! Any reason that brought you here and to this quit is a great reason  (Vanity included!!) You will soon be stepping over the threshold of the Lido Deck. How frickin' great is that!!   I agree! Feels great and I've never been prouder of myself
    Quitting smoking, while may be challenging at times is ultimately do-able and wasn't as difficult as anticipated.       I committed myself to quitting 'for a year', jumped into it as an adventure and it turned into a most rewarding one in so many ways.
    Made a promise to myself ....Take smoking off the table no matter what .....this meant no more excuses to light up ....ever....
    Yeah ... first "The Letter" from AARP for Sarge's official "Too Old For This Shit Discount Card" came earlier in the week ...Now this from Phillip Morris ...   EZPZ
That's so odd because I got something from Marlboro too today. Two coupons for $1.50 off a pack of cigarettes! I use to get those things all the time in the mail for $5.00 off a carton and I hadn't gotten one since my birthday in March! You would think they would have figured out that I hadn't used a Marlboro coupon in over three years and stop sending me those things
    WTF?  I guess they think you’re still gambling w your health... Desperate SOBs. 
    How do these people know your name, address and DOB?.....I'd be more freaked out about that tbh. That just creeps me out... Maybe it's just a US thing?....I don't ever remember the tobacco companies doing give aways or vouchers down here. That's so outside my realm.....      What's the AARP letter? Is it like a senior's card to give you discounts on things like the movies?
    We had vouchers ..a loooooong time ago ....to recieve gifts ...like a free lighter ...lol....   So I should imagine they would need a address to send it ..and as a numpty smoker who needed another lighter ...say no more ...all the addresses are on file somewhere I bet !
    That wasn't a thing here in my time as a smoker...maybe earlier though.
5 hours ago, notsmokinjo said:              How do these people know your name, address and DOB?                                        What's the AARP letter? Is it like a senior's card to give you discounts on things like the movies?             They know address/DOB because people signed up for discounts and free stuff as Doreen said. AARP  American Association of Retired People.  Yep, The Elder's discount card and a lobbying group.
5 hours ago, notsmokinjo said:              How do these people know your name, address and DOB?.....I'd be more freaked out about that tbh. That just creeps me out... Maybe it's just a US thing?....I don't ever remember the tobacco companies doing give aways or vouchers down here. That's so outside my realm.....                                      What's the AARP letter? Is it like a senior's card to give you discounts on things like the movies?             I've never gotten anything from Phillip Morris here in the US but then I never dealt directly with them and almost always bought a carton using cash.   I imagine that there is multiple ways they could get your address       1.  if you got any of their "prizes" from their catalog 2  Ever ordered cigarettes online (when it was still legal) 3. Used a credit or debit card at a tobacco shop which would record what and how often you buy.     That data got shared with Philipp Morris.   Always be careful what you do online folks.     I did get an AARP letter almost on the day of my 50th birthday though.   I joined of course do get all of the old fart senior discounts.     Edited July 7 by Wayne045
Eff all these tobacco companies I can almost see their lecherous advertisements " Feeling low and alone?    Are you old and all by  yourself... With no one to wish you on your birthday or your anniversary?   Have no fear... Phillip Morris is here...   We never forget your birthday or your anniversary.. We're here to encourage you to your deatheversary....   So go ahead have a Phillip Morris today..." Eff 'em How the hell did they get info on addresses and birthdays anyway?   *Just a sarcastic take on how tobacco companies may try to feed off the aged, nothing else*Edited July 7 by Ankush
The thing that surprises me most is that this "club" (AARP) declares people 50 years of age as old!     Isn't 50 the new 40?
They got my info because years ago they had a promotion called Marlboro miles. You saved up your miles and then bought things with them from their catalog. You had to fill out the order form complete with DOB to prove you were 18. I bought a Marlboro backpack, duffle bag, mini binoculars and a few other things with my miles. Since there was no internet back then it was all done through snail mail and I've been receiving things from them ever since.
7 hours ago, notsmokinjo said:                                  What's the AARP letter? Is it like a senior's card to give you discounts on things like the movies?         American Association of Retired Persons.    Yes.
    Maybe, this link will help:  https://gtc.marlboro.com/marlboro/security/removemyname
I had a massive list of things I thought I would miss and thought I could not live without before I quit.       For example, I thought:     - I would be stressed as I thought cigarettes relieved stress   - I would lose my identity  - I wouldn't know what to do with myself when waiting for the bus or train  - What was I going to do on ad breaks in the middle of a film or programme? - I would be less sociable  - What if anything negative happened in my life? I wouldn't have a way of dealing with it with no cigarettes    - How on earth would I ever go out again??  - And have a drink? What about when it's summer and I'm having a beer outside? Surely I can't not smoke then?   - Eeek, what about holidays?    - Oh and my darling morning coffee, that always goes with a cigarette. Surely I can't separate those two?       I also thought:         - I will never be able to sit through a 3 course meal in a restaurant without cigarettes in between courses - Or go out to a bar with my friends without stepping outside all the time  - Or go through a day at work without smoking. An absolutely absurd idea    - Or go to the airport without frantically smoking a million cigarettes before going through security checks and not being able to smoke until I get to my destination  - Or get out of bed and not have a cigarette as the first activity of every single day      - Or ever feel like I'm not a slave and ruled by addiction      Luckily for me and most other ex smokers it turns out every single one of these assumptions were wrong. I can't even tell you how much better my life is now. But it can actually be a very vulnerable state when you quit, as all these habits and perceived comforts are changing in one go. Edited July 2 by greenlight
So many of those applied to me too. Especially when drinking or being around people who smoke. Great post greenlight Edited July 2 by jillar
Everything....thought if I quit I'd miss everything about it...everything on your list and then some...I mean what woz i Gunna do between innings of when I came off the diamond....        What do miss about it....nothing! Absolutely nothing!....       So a couple of weeks ago I bummed a ride with a mate who is a smoker....and they smoke in the car....not once during that journey did I want to ask for one....each minute in the car was confirmation that I will never, ever go there again.Edited July 2 by notsmokinjo
    - I was scared as to how I would deal with stress if I quit - I was scared that negative things (from people) in my life wouldn't stop if I quit smoking        Minor things    - I was worried I would never get over the fact that I need a cigarette after meals - I was worried I wouldn't be able to go out of my house several hours at a go without needing a cigarette (since I used to avoid carrying cigarettes when I went out with my family)       Stress is still there, negative things don't stop, but at least I quit smoking. And, I eventually got used to not having a cigarette after meals. I still get stressed when I step out of my house (whether its a short period or a long period), but fight off the urge, if I do get it. Nevertheless, at least I quit smoking.
    Everything﻿....thought if I quit I'd miss everything about it...everything on your list and then some...I mean what woz i Gunna do between innings of when I came off the diamond...﻿.   ﻿﻿ ﻿ What do ﻿miss ab﻿out it....nothing! Absolutely n﻿othing!....      I'm with Jo ... My whole adult life I was a smoker ....I believed all the lies .... Do I miss it ???.!!!!......No ....I love my smoke free life ... Even ...losing Tony  recently..... The thought of smoking never even entered my head ....so I'm guessing I'll never smoke again ....
1 hour ago, notsmokinjo said:               So a couple of weeks ago I bummed a ride with a mate who is a smoker....and they smoke in the car....not once during that journey did I want to ask for one....each minute in the car was confirmation that I will never, ever go there again.              I bet! Must have been gross to sit there in all that smoke... So happy you got even more confirmation that you will never go there again.
59 minutes ago, Ankush said:                - I was scared as to how I would deal with stress if I quit                 - I was scared that negative things (from people) in my life wouldn't stop if I quit smoking                                        Minor things                    - I was worried I would never get over the fact that I need a cigarette after meals                 - I was worried I wouldn't be able to go out of my house several hours at a go without needing a cigarette (since I used to avoid carrying cigarettes when I went out with my family)                                       Stress is still there, negative things don't stop, but at least I quit smoking. And, I eventually got used to not having a cigarette after meals. I still get stressed when I step out of my house (whether its a short period or a long period), but fight off the urge, if I do get it. Nevertheless, at least I quit smoking.                You're doing really well, a part of it definitely is to resist the urge. Like you say, the important thing is you quit smoking and as you keep resisting the urge it will eventually get easier. Edited July 2 by greenlight
20 minutes ago, Doreensfree said:               I'm with Jo ...                 My whole adult life I was a smoker ....I believed all the lies ....                 Do I miss it ???.!!!!......No ....I love my smoke free life ...                 Even ...losing Tony  recently..... The thought of smoking never even entered my head ....so I'm guessing I'll never smoke again ....            Ahhh I'm sorry for your loss! I'm glad this didn't make you want to smoke again. This was part of my quit as well, that I decided I would never smoke again, regardless of what happens and this includes really, really difficult losses. I'm pleased you didn't want to smoke at all even then and I hope you're doing alright otherwise too
1 hour ago, greenlight said:                                    You're doing really well, a part of it definitely is to resist the urge. Like you say, the important thing is you quit smoking and as you keep resisting the urge it will eventually get easier.            Thank you @greenlight
